Virginia Tech (VT), formally the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (VPI),[9] is a public land-grant research university with its main campus in Blacksburg, Virginia. It also has educational facilities in six regions statewide, a research center in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, and a study-abroad site in Riva San Vitale, Switzerland. Through its Corps of Cadets ROTC program, Virginia Tech is a senior military college.[10]
Virginia Tech offers 280 undergraduate and graduate degree programs to its 37,000 students; as of 2016, it was the state's second-largest public university by enrollment.[11] It is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity".[12]
The university's athletic teams are known as the Virginia Tech Hokies and compete in Division I of the NCAA as members of the Atlantic Coast Conference. VT alumni include 2 Rhodes Scholars, 4 Marshall Scholars, 38 Goldwater Scholars, and 131 Fulbright Scholars.[a][14][15][16] Among its alumni are 8 Medal of Honor recipients, 97 flag officers, governors of two U.S. states, 2 astronauts, and a billionaire.[17][18] Three Nobel laureates and one MacArthur Fellow have received a degree or served as faculty members at the university. As of 2015, VT had more than 240,000 living alumni worldwide.[19]
In 1872, with federal funds provided by the Morrill Act of 1862, the Reconstruction-era Virginia General Assembly purchased the facilities of Preston and Olin Institute, a small Methodist school for boys in Southwest Virginia's rural Montgomery County. That same year, 250 acres (100 ha) of the adjoining Solitude Farm including the house and several farm buildings on the estate were acquired for $21,250 from Robert Taylor Preston, a son of Governor of Virginia, James Patton Preston.[20][21] The commonwealth incorporated a new institution on the site, a state-supported land-grant military institute named Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College.[22]
Virginia Tech's first student, Addison "Add" Caldwell registered on October 1, 1872, after hiking over 25 miles from his home in Craig County, Virginia. A statue, located in the Upper Quad of campus commemorates Add's journey to enroll.[23] First-year cadets and their training cadre re-enact Addison Caldwell's journey every year in the Caldwell March. They complete the first half of the 26-mile march in the fall and the second half in the spring.[24]
The first five presidents of Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College served in the Confederate States Army or the Confederate government during the Civil War as did many of its early professors including the first Commandant, James H. Lane, a VMI graduate and former Confederate General who taught civil engineering and commerce at the college and is the namesake of Lane Hall, one of the oldest buildings on campus, built in 1888.[25] Its third president, Thomas Nelson Conrad, was a notorious Confederate spy who ran a covert intelligence gathering operation from a home in the heart of Washington, D.C.. Its sixth president, Paul Brandon Barringer, was a son of Confederate General Rufus Barringer and a nephew of Confederate Generals Stonewall Jackson and Daniel Harvey Hill.
In a nod to this southern heritage the Confederate Battle Flag was traditionally waved by cheerleaders at Virginia Tech football games and the Highty-Tighties played Dixie as a fight song when the Hokies scored a touchdown. A large Confederate flag also hung inside Cassell Coliseum where Virginia Tech basketball games are played.[26] Since 1963, "Skipper", a replica of a Civil War cannon has been fired at football games by members of the Corps of Cadets when the team scores.[27] The Confederate Flag was also prominently featured on all Virginia Tech class rings.[28] The display of the Confederate flag at athletic events ended in the late 1960s after Marguerite Harper, a black woman attending Virginia Tech on a Rockefeller Scholarship for culturally disadvantaged students, was elected to the student senate during her sophomore year and made a successful resolution to end the practice. Following the resolution there was a large demonstration in opposition to the removal of the Confederate flag. The campus was covered in Confederate flags and Dixie was blasting from dormitory windows. Harper and her white roommate received hate mail and threatening phone calls, but the resolution stood, and the display of the rebel flag ended in 1969.[29] The Confederate flag on Virginia Tech class rings became optional in 1972 and could be left off of the ring at the student's request.[30] The Confederate flag has since been removed from class ring designs entirely.
Under the leadership of seventh president Joseph Dupuy Eggleston, who held the position from 1913 to 1919, the university established a Reserve Officer Training Corps to support national efforts during World War I. 
In 1917, physics professor Charles E. Vawter, Jr. (son of Charles E. Vawter, who had served on the VPI board of visitors from 1886 to 1900), shot Stockton Heth, Jr., a scion of one of Montgomery County's wealthiest families, in his campus home on faculty row. Heth, who lived at Whitethorne, an antebellum mansion on a 1,500-acre estate near Blacksburg, later died of his wounds. Due to the Heth family's wealth and political connections, Vawter's position as head of the VPI physics department, and the extramarital affair that led to the shooting, the resulting murder trial was one of the most sensational in Virginia history (Vawter was acquitted, and left the school).[31] Eggleston attempted to suppress news of the affair in the media with considerable success, most likely due to world events that stole the headlines in the spring of 1917, rather than his efforts to protect VPI's reputation.
During Thomas Nelson Conrad's tenure as president, the college switched from semesters to the quarter system, which remained in place until the late 1980s. Under the 1891–1907 presidency of John McLaren McBryde, the school organized its academic programs into a traditional four-year college and a graduate department was founded. The evolution of the school's programs led to a name change in 1896 to Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College and Polytechnic Institute. The "Agricultural and Mechanical College" portion of the name was popularly omitted almost immediately; in 1944, the name was officially changed to Virginia Polytechnic Institute (VPI).[32]

VPI admitted its first female students in 1921 as civilian day students; they did not live on campus.  In 1923, VPI changed a policy of compulsory participation in the Corps of Cadets from four years to two years. In 1931, VPI began teaching classes at the Norfolk Division of the College of William and Mary (now Old Dominion University).[33] This program eventually developed into a two-year engineering program that allowed students to transfer to VPI for their final two years of degree work. The first women's dormitory at VPI, Hillcrest Hall, was built in 1940. In 1943, VPI merged with Radford State Teachers College in nearby Radford, which became VPI's women's division; the merger was dissolved in 1964. Today, Radford University is a co-educational research university that enrolls nearly 10,000 students and offers more than 150 undergraduate and graduate programs.[34]
In 1953 under the leadership of President Walter Stephenson Newman, VPI became the first historically white, four-year public institution among the 11 states in the former Confederacy to admit a black undergraduate. Three more black students were admitted in 1954. At the time Virginia still enforced Jim Crow laws and largely practiced racial segregation in public and private education, churches, neighborhoods, restaurants, and movie theaters and these first black students at VPI were not allowed to live in residence halls or eat in the dining halls on campus. Instead, they boarded with African American families in Blacksburg. In 1958, Charlie L. Yates made history as the first African American to graduate from VPI. Yates earned a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering, with honors, and was hailed as the first African American "to be graduated from any major Southern engineering institute," according to news reports at the time.[35]
VPI President T. Marshall Hahn, whose tenure ran from 1962 to 1974,[36] was responsible for many of the programs and policies that transformed VPI from a small, historically white, predominately male, military institute with a primary focus on undergraduate teaching into a major co-educational research university. The student body that had been approximately 5,682 in 1962 increased by roughly 1,000 students each year, new dormitories and academic buildings were constructed, faculty members were added – in 1966, for instance, more than 100 new professors joined the faculty – and research budgets were increased.[36] During Hahn's tenure, not only did the university graduate its first Rhodes Scholar, W.W. Lewis, Class of 1963,[37] the requirement for male students to participate in the Corps of Cadets for two years was dropped in 1964. Beginning in the fall 1973, women could participate in the Corps, making Virginia Tech among the nation's first senior military colleges to integrate women.[38]
In 1970, the state legislature allowed VPI university status and gave it the present legal name, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. In the early 1990s, university administration authorized the official use of Virginia Tech as equivalent to the full legal name; it has been used as the first-reference name for the school's athletic teams since the 1970s. However, diplomas and transcripts still spell out the formal name. Similarly, the abbreviation "VT" is far more common today than either VPI or VPI&SU.
During the Vietnam War, students on college campuses across the nation protested the draft and U.S. involvement in the conflict. Despite its long history as a military school, Virginia Tech was no exception. Most protests at Virginia Tech were small sit-ins and teach-ins, but In mid-April 1970 a group of anti-war protesters including students and faculty members disrupted a Corps of Cadets drill on campus. The Virginia Tech administration under Dr. Hahn took swift action. The students involved were suspended and the faculty members involved were fired from the university and the administration went to court and obtained an injunction to prevent them from repeating the act. This succeeded in calming tensions on campus, but only for a few weeks.[39]
Tensions on campus reached the boiling point several days following the Kent State Shootings of illegal recruiting, the bitter departure of two athletic directors in less than a year and millions of dollars of debt run up by the university's sports program due to mismanagement of financial resources, million dollar coaching contracts, and lavish expense accounts for athletics officials that led to a rebuke from Governor of Virginia, Gerald Baliles in 1987.  Baliles, the featured speaker at the Virginia Tech's 115th annual commencement exercises, scolded the Virginia Tech Board of Visitors for the scandal and warned other state-supported institutions in Virginia not to put athletics ahead of academics.[43]
Lavery developed a reorganization plan for the troubled Athletic Department, and Frank Beamer was hired to replace Bill Dooley as head football coach, but with negative publicity continuing to swirl within and around the university, he announced his resignation on October 16, 1987, effective December 31, 1987, to prevent polarization of the campus.[44] He was succeeded as president by James Douglas McComas who served until 1994.
Due to the unpopularity of US involvement in the Vietnam War enrollment in the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets spiraled downward through the 1970s and 80s. In 1991 through the efforts of Henry Dekker (Class of 1944) The Corps of Cadets Alumni Inc. was created to save the corps, whose numbers had declined to only a few hundred students. In 1992 the alumni organization-initiated Corps Review, a newsletter that was expanded to a magazine in 2004 and targeted corps alumni. In the mid-1990s, the corps alumni organization set a goal of "1000 in 2000" and initiated a major campaign to push the number of cadets to 1,000 by the turn of the century. The goal was not reached, but membership in the corps did increase substantially by the end of the decade.[45]
The early decades of this century have seen expansion across the university's institutions in both physical and population sizes. In 2001, Virginia Tech acquired 326 acres of the Heth Farm adjacent to campus, increasing the College Farm to over 3,000 acres.[46] The Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine and Research Institute was created with a strategic partnership with the Carilion Clinic and the governor of Virginia. These years also brought about the rapid development of the university's professional schools of graduate education and business programs. Virginia Tech brought in over $500 million in research expenditures in 2014.[47]
The establishment of scholarships for cadets and a resurgence of national patriotism after the September 11 attacks helped the corps recruit new cadets, increasing the ranks to 1,127 by 2018—the largest corps the university has seen since the mid-1960s.[45][48] The Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets is poised to increase enrollment to 1,400 in coming years.[49]
On April 16, 2007, Virginia Tech student Seung-Hui Cho fatally shot 32 faculty members and students and wounded 17 others in two locations on campus before killing himself. The massacre is the deadliest mass shooting on an American college campus, surpassing the University of Texas tower shooting in 1966. Although it was at the time the deadliest mass shooting committed by a lone gunman in U.S. history, it has since been surpassed by two shootings at an Orlando nightclub and an outdoor music festival in Las Vegas.[50][51][52] It is the second-deadliest school massacre in U.S. history, surpassed only by the Bath School bombing in 1927 that killed 44.[53]
The Virginia Tech massacre led to an intense nationwide debate over gun rights, gun safety and efficacy of gun-free zones. It prompted many states to introduce legislation to prohibit public colleges and universities from banning concealed weapons on campus for permit holders. In 2013, at least 19 states introduced legislation to allow concealed carry on campus in some form, and in the 2014 legislative session, at least 14 states introduced similar legislation. In 2016, Tennessee passed a bill permitting faculty members to carry handguns on campus after notifying local law enforcement. In 2015, Texas became the eighth state to allow concealed weapons on college campuses. In December 2016, Governor John Kasich signed a bill into law that lifted Ohio's statewide ban on firearms on college campuses, leaving the decision to the institutions.[54] In 2017, Georgia became the tenth state to prohibit colleges and universities from banning concealed weapons on campus.[55] Virginia law allows individual institutions to make the decision whether to allow concealed weapons on campus, but Virginia Tech continues to ban concealed carry permit holders from carrying guns on campus.[56]
After Amazon unveiled its second headquarters in Crystal City, Virginia, Virginia Tech announced plans to build a $1 billion graduate research center adjacent to the facility. The Virginia Tech Innovation Campus will be housed at a million-square-foot campus in Alexandria. It is expected to educate hundreds of graduate students. The Innovation Campus will focus on computer science and software engineering, with specializations in areas including artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and data analytics.[57]
Due to rapid growth of incoming freshmen classes, the university announced in 2019 that it would offer 1,559 incoming, in-state freshmen financial incentives to skip the 2019–20 school year in Blacksburg.[58] Expecting a larger-than-planned class size, the university budgeted $3.3 million for the endeavor. Virginia Tech also waived the requirement that freshmen live on campus for the 2019–20 school year, leased an off-campus Holiday Inn, and converted its on-campus hotel to house students.
Virginia Tech is a public university and one of Virginia's two land-grant institutions. Its academic programs are administered by nine colleges, the Graduate School, and the Honors College.
Virginia Tech offers 116 bachelor's degree programs through its nine undergraduate academic colleges,[60] 160 master's and doctoral degree programs through the Graduate School, and a professional degree from the Virginia–Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine. In addition, the Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine and Research Institute is a public/private partnership jointly managed by Virginia Tech and the Carilion Clinic founded on January 3, 2007.[61]
Virginia Tech received a record number of nearly 22,500 applications for the fall 2015 freshman class, an increase of 7.6% from the previous year's 20,897 applications for an overall admissions rate of 65.8%. The typical student offered admission had a high-school grade point average of 4.00, with the middle 50 percent ranging from 3.84 and 4.27. The average cumulative SAT score was 1250 (out of 1600), with a middle range ranging from 1160 to 1340. Of the 5,518 students who accepted the offers of admission (for an admissions yield of 38%)[discuss], 18 percent accepted under the Early Decision Plan.[64] The Office of Undergraduate Admissions is located within the Visitor and Undergraduate Admissions Center.[65]
Virginia Tech offers a highly selective Honors College, which provides undergraduate students 11 different ways to earn Honors credits towards one of the five Honors degree options. Once admitted, Honors students are required to maintain a 3.6 GPA in order to remain in the program. Roughly one-fourth of the approximately 1,600 University Honors students live in one of the two University Honors residential halls, the Honors Residential College located in East Ambler-Johnston and the Hillcrest Honors Community.[66]
For the 2013–14 academic year, the Graduate School at Virginia Tech enrolled 6,723 graduate students (4,465 full-time; 2,258 part-time) in its masters and doctoral programs.[67]
The Pamplin College of Business received 381 applications for its incoming Evening MBA program and offered admission to 142. The class's average GMAT was 610, and mean undergraduate GPA was 3.4.[68]
The Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine in Roanoke, Va., received 4,403 applications for its eighth incoming class, the class of 2021, and offered admission to 42. The class's MCAT scores range was 503–520 (median 512, mean 512), and mean undergraduate GPA was 3.57.[69]
In 2023, Virginia Tech became the second public university after the U.S. Supreme Court decided Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard, banning affirmative action in college admissions, to end its use of legacy admissions.[70] The university also ended its binding early decision program because it "created unneeded pressure on students [...] particularly those needing financial aid".[70]
In U.S. News & World Report's list of "2023 Best Colleges", Virginia Tech tied for 62nd overall among national universities, tied for 23rd among public ones, tied at 41st for "Most Innovative", ranked 156th in "Best Value Schools", and tied for 291st in "Top Performers on Social Mobility".[81]
The Pamplin College of Business's part-time MBA program was tied for 19th overall by U.S. News & World Report in 2020.[79] The Master of Information Technology program, jointly sponsored by the Pamplin College of Business and the College of Engineering, is ranked No. 4 in U.S. News & World Report's Best Online Graduate Computer Information Technology Programs.[82] This interdisciplinary program is offered entirely online.[82]
Programs in the College of Architecture and Urban Studies (CAUS) include architecture + design, landscape architecture, urban planning, and public administration. In its 2016 "America's Best Architecture & Design Schools" report, DesignIntelligence ranked the undergraduate architecture program 3rd nationally among both public and private universities. The graduate architecture program ranked 9th in the nation.[83] For 2013, DesignIntelligence ranked the university's undergraduate and graduate landscape architecture programs No. 2 in the nation. In addition, DesignIntelligence ranked the university's undergraduate interior design program 6th and undergraduate industrial design program 3rd.[84] The Planetizen 2012 Guide to Graduate Urban Planning Programs ranked Virginia Tech's MURP program as 19th. Virginia Tech's MURP program was also rated among the best programs in Technology, Land Use Planning, Environmental Planning, and Growth Management.[85]
Kiplinger's Personal Finance places Virginia Tech 20th in its 2019 ranking of 174 best value public colleges in the United States.[86] In 2018, CEOWORLD magazine ranked the undergraduate architecture program 3rd nationally.[87] The graduate architecture program ranked 14th.[88]
Virginia Tech received the following rankings from The Princeton Review in its 2017 Best 380 Colleges Rankings:[89]

Virginia Tech's research and development expenditures (R&D) were $542 million in fiscal year 2019, which ranked 48th among education institutions in the nation and 2nd in the state of Virginia according to the National Science Foundation.[90] As a result, Virginia Tech marked its 15th consecutive year of research growth, with the university's research portfolio more than doubling from $192.7 million in fiscal year 2000. The only Virginia institution in the top 50 of the NSF's rankings for research expenditures, Virginia Tech is No. 23 among public universities. The university's research expenditures rank it in the top 5 percent of more than 900 research universities and colleges. Each year, the university receives thousands of awards to conduct research from an ever-expanding base of sponsors. Researchers pursue new discoveries in agriculture, biotechnology, information and communication technology, human health, transportation, energy management (including leadership in fuel-cell technology and power electronics), security, sustainability, and a wide range of other engineering, scientific, social science, and creative fields. This research led to 36 patents and 17 license and option agreements in fiscal year 2013.[91]: 5 
The Fralin Life Science Institute is an expansion of the Fralin Biotechnology Center, which was established in 1991.[92] Research at the institute is focused on the areas of vector-borne disease; infectious disease and microbial sciences; plant sciences; obesity; cancer biology; and ecology and organismal biology.[93]
The Biocomplexity Institute of Virginia Tech, formerly known as the Virginia Bioinformatics Institute, is a bioinformatics, computational biology, and systems biology research facility that opened in 2000 on Virginia Tech's main campus in Blacksburg, Virginia. The institute houses more than 200 employees and multiple supercomputing clusters, and it has more than $109 million in active research awards.
The Virginia Tech Transportation Institute (VTTI) was founded as the Center for Transportation Research in 1988 and employs more than 350 personnel. VTTI has more than $125 million in active research awards, and has a mission to save lives, save time, save money, and protect the environment. It is the second largest university-level transportation institute in the United States, and the largest group of driving safety researchers in the world. Facilities include the 2.2-mile (3.5 km), two-lane, fully instrumented Virginia Smart Road; connected-vehicle test beds in Southwest and Northern Virginia; more than 83,000 square feet of office and laboratory space; the VTTI/Center for Injury Biomechanics Crash Sled Lab; and the National Tire Research Center in Southern Virginia.[94] These laboratories include an asphalt lab, fully equipped garages, instrumentation bays, and a machine shop for working on VTTI's vehicle fleet.[95]
VTTI develops and tests advanced transportation safety devices, techniques, and innovative applications. VTTI's research impacts public policy in transportation, notably through research into distracted driving[96] and commercial hour-of-service.[97]
VTTI conducts applied research to address transportation challenges from various perspectives: vehicle, driver, infrastructure, materials, and environment.[47] Most notable among VTTI endeavors are its naturalistic driving studies. These studies particularly utilize VTTI's data acquisition systems, which gather continuous video and driving performance data in real-world driving conditions. These systems have been installed in nearly 4,000 passenger vehicles, commercial trucks and motor coaches, and motorcycles.[98]
Since 2005, the Institute for Critical Technology and Applied Science (ICTAS) has made efforts to build capacity at the intersection of engineering, science, biology, and the humanities. Thrust areas include nuclear engineering, nanoscale science and engineering, nano-bio interface, sustainable energy, safe and sustainable water, national security, cognition and communication systems, renewable materials, and emerging technologies. The first director was Roop L. Mahajan (2005–2016) and the current director is Dr. Stefan Duma (2016–present).[47]
Other research conducted throughout the university's colleges and interdisciplinary groups includes high-performance computing; advanced materials; wireless telecommunication; housing; human and animal health; cognition, development, and behavior; the environment; and energy, including power electronics, biofuels, fuel cells, and solar-powered building structures.[99]
The Virginia Tech campus is in Blacksburg, Virginia. Most buildings are built of limestone in a neo-Gothic style. Notable green spaces include the Hahn Horticulture Garden, Virginia Tech Duck Pond, and the old-growth forest, Stadium Woods.
The central campus is roughly bordered by Prices Fork Road to the northwest, Plantation Drive to the west, Main Street to the east, and US 460 Bypass to the south, though it has several thousand acres beyond the central campus.
In the center of the Blacksburg campus lies the Drillfield, a large oval field running northeast to southwest, encircled by a one-way street that is known as Drillfield Drive. The Drillfield's name, coined in 1926 after the completion of Virginia Tech's first real stadium, Miles Stadium, stems from its use by the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets to conduct military drills. A waterway, Stroubles Creek, runs beneath the Drillfield on the south side. A three-sided conduit for the creek that retains the natural bed of the creek was installed in 1934, and, in 1971, the first two asphalt walks were added. [104]
On the northwestern side of the Drillfield stand most of the university's academic and administrative buildings, including Burruss and McBryde Halls. On the southeastern side of the Drillfield stand most of the residential buildings, including students' residence halls, dining halls, and War Memorial Gym. Newman Library is on the eastern side of campus and connects to Torgersen Bridge, which spans the main road into campus, Alumni Mall. North of the Drillfield and northwest of Alumni Mall lies the Upper Quad, known to many students as military campus. The Upper Quad is home to the Corps of Cadets' barracks.
On the main campus in Blacksburg, most of the buildings incorporate Hokie Stone as a building material. In 2010, the board of visitors passed a resolution about using the gray stone, shaded by hues of brown and pink, in all building projects.[105]
The university has established five branch campuses:[106]

Virginia Tech's presence in the Washington Metropolitan Area links regional graduate education and outreach programs that are consistent with the university's strategic research areas of excellence: energy materials and environment, social and individual transformation, health, food, and nutrition, and innovative technologies and complex systems.[112]
Supporting the university's missions is the Virginia Tech National Capital Region. The university has established collaborations and partnerships with local and federal agencies, nonprofit research organizations, businesses, and other institutions of higher education. Current locations include Alexandria, Arlington, Fairfax, Falls Church, Leesburg, Manassas, and Middleburg.
Biomedical Technology Development and Management is an executive program in the National Capital Region. The Master of Science in Biomedical Technology Development and Management (BTDM) is a graduate level degree created by Virginia Tech in response to future directions in medical product discovery and development and the emerging needs of industry and regulatory agencies. Curriculum for the degree program integrates science with technology, management, ethics, and public policy, and draws on the strengths of Virginia Tech in science, industrial and systems engineering, business and management, and medical research programs.[113]
In 2014, the university opened a Language and Culture Institute location in Fairfax.[114] The institute offers intensive English language programs for college-age students, professionals, and diplomats.[115]
Located on the eastern tip of the Dominican Republic, the Caribbean Center for Education and Research (CCER) in Punta Cana provides a base for Virginia Tech faculty to conduct research as well as instruct students on biodiversity, environmental and social sustainability, global issues in natural resources, and hotel and tourism management. The center is the product of a partnership between Virginia Tech and the PUNTACANA Ecological Foundation (PCEF) and the PUNTACANA Resort and Club. PCEF maintains a 2,000-acre (810 ha) natural forest reserve, 14 kilometres (8.7 mi) of protected coral reef, freshwater lagoons and coastal mangroves.[116]
Renamed the Steger Center for International Scholarship in 2014,[117] the Center for European Studies and Architecture (CESA) is the university's European campus center and base for operations and support of its programs in the region. The center's location in Riva San Vitale, Ticino, the Italian-speaking canton of Switzerland, is also close to major northern Italian cities such as Milan.[116]
Virginia Tech has several agricultural research and extension centers located throughout the Commonwealth dedicated to improving agricultural practices and the quality of life of Virginia citizens. The Virginia Tech Agricultural Research and Extension Centers are: Alson H. Smith, Jr., Eastern Shore, Eastern Virginia, Hampton Roads, Middleburg, Reynolds Homestead, Shenandoah Valley, Southern Piedmont, Southwest Virginia, Tidewater, and Virginia Seafood.
Distinguished by a towering 180-foot-high radial brick smokestack, the university's coal fired Central Steam Power Plant generates an annual steam output greater than 943 billion BTUs and provides campus buildings with a portion of their heat, hot water, and electricity needs. Nearly 90 percent of campus buildings are connected to the plant through an extensive network of tunnels—the main access point is on the Drillfield—and more than six miles (9.7 km) of steam lines and piping provide heat to more than 6.8 million square feet of campus buildings. Only personnel with confined-space training are permitted to enter the tunnel system, comprising 2.76 miles (4.44 km) of inaccessible tunnel and 11.07 miles (17.82 km) of piping; 3.78 miles (6.08 km) of direct-bury piping in the ground; and 2.2 miles (3.5 km) of accessible tunnel and 12.27 miles (19.75 km) of piping.[118]
There are more than 700 student organizations on campus. Some of these organizations include Bolt at Virginia Tech which builds electric racing motorcycles; PRISM a student-run ad agency; BASIS at Virginia Tech the largest student-run fixed income portfolio group in the nation managing $5 million; the Chocolate Milk Club; and a Young Life Chapter. Over 9,300 Virginia Tech students reside on campus.[120]
Until 1923, every able-bodied male was required to participate for four years in the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets. The requirement was changed to two years until 1964, when participation became voluntary. Members of the ROTC program are required to participate in the Corps of Cadets. Virginia Tech remains one of three public universities in the United States with both an active corps of cadets and regular civilian students on its campus (Texas A&M University and the University of North Georgia are the other two).
More than 1,000 cadets reside on the campus of Virginia Tech. The Corps of Cadets Community is located in the Upper Quad, which features some of the oldest buildings on campus. Cadet dorms are also known as "cadet barracks". Two new dormitories were constructed on the Upper Quad to house all of the cadets. Pearson Hall replaced Rasche Hall in November 2015, and in August 2017, Brodie Hall was replaced by the New Cadet Dorm (a.k.a. "New Brodie").[121] Former cadet dorms, Thomas Hall and Monteith Hall were demolished in 2017. Their sites are planned to be used as green space for the foreseeable future.
Virginia Tech hosts a number of fraternities and sororities across four governing councils. There are 23 IFC fraternities and 13 National Panhellenic Conference sororities recognized at Virginia Tech. The fraternity and sorority community currently encompasses more than 5,500 students which represents just about 20 percent of the undergraduate population.[122] The Oak Lane Community[123] houses those sororities and fraternities which have houses chartered on campus. A number of fraternities have chartered off-campus housing. There are also numerous other academic and service-related sororities and fraternities at the school, as well as various historically Black and cultural interest organizations.[122]
There are also a number of fraternities at Virginia Tech that are not officially recognized by the university. 
Virginia Tech teams are known as the Hokies. The HokieBird is a turkey-like creature whose form has evolved from the original school mascot of the Fighting Gobbler. While the modern HokieBird still resembles a Fighting Gobbler, the word "Hokie" has all but replaced Fighting Gobbler in terms of colloquial use. The term originated from the Old Hokie yell. 
They compete as a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I level (Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) sub-level for football), primarily competing in the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) for all sports since the 2004–05 season. The Hokies previously competed in the Big East Conference from 2000–01 to 2003–04 (football program from 1991–92 to 1999–2000); the Atlantic 10 Conference (A-10) from 1995–96 to 1999–2000; and the Metro Conference from 1978–79 to 1994–95.
Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, football, golf, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field and wrestling. Women's sports include basketball, cross country, field hockey, golf, lacrosse, rowing, soccer, softball, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field and volleyball.
Virginia Tech's fight song, "Tech Triumph", was written in 1919 and remains in use today. The song is played at sporting events by both the Virginia Tech student band, The Marching Virginians, and the regimental Corps of Cadets' band, the Highty Tighties.
The most prominent athletic facilities are Lane Stadium, Cassell Coliseum, English Field, Thompson Field, Tech Softball Park, Rector Field House, the Beamer-Lawson Indoor Practice Facility, and the Christiansburg Aquatic Center.
Cassell Coliseum Thompson Field

Notable current and former faculty at Virginia Tech include Romesh Batra (biomedical engineering), Patricia Dove (geosciences), Marc Edwards (civil and environmental engineering), Roger Ekirch (history), Nikki Giovanni (English), Michael Hochella (geosciences),  Liviu Librescu (engineering science and mechanics), Tim Luke (political science), Linsey Marr (civil and environmental engineering), Xiang-Jin Meng (virology), Arun Phadke (electrical engineering), James Robertson (history), Arthur Squires (chemical engineering), James Thorp (electrical engineering), John Tyson (biology), and Gary Wamsley (public administration).
There have been 17 university heads for Virginia Tech since its founding in 1872. The current president is Timothy Sands (previously provost of Purdue University), who has held the post since 2014.
Virginia Tech has over 240,000 alumni internationally and from all 50 states. The Virginia Tech Alumni Association has over 100 chapters and has been consistently regarded as one of the best in the nation.[89][125]
One of six senior military colleges in the United States, Virginia Tech has produced numerous military leaders, among them 97 generals and admirals, including Carlton D. Everhart II, Commander, Air Mobility Command; Thomas C. Richards, Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe; Lance L. Smith, Commander, United States Joint Forces Command; Jody A. Breckenridge, Commander, Coast Guard Pacific Area; William G. Boykin, Deputy Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence, Commander, John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center; and Wallace H. Robinson, Director, Defense Supply Agency.
Eight alumni have been awarded the Medal of Honor, the highest award bestowed by the United States armed forces: Antoine August Michel Gaujot, Julien Edmund Victor Gaujot, Earle Davis Gregory, Herbert Joseph Thomas, Jimmie W. Monteith, Robert Edward Femoyer, Richard Thomas Shea, Jr., Gary Lee Miller; their names are inscribed on a marble cenotaph at the center of War Memorial Court on the Blacksburg campus.[126]
Many VT alumni have also served in civilian leadership roles: Chet Culver, 41st governor of Iowa; William Dodd, ambassador to Germany; Linda Swartz Taglialatela, ambassador to Barbados; Rob Wittman, member of the House of Representatives; Tony McNulty, member of Parliament for Harrow East; Deborah Hersman, 12th chairperson of the National Transportation Safety Board; Regina Dugan, 19th director, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency; John H. Thompson, Director of the United States Census Bureau; Lawrence Koontz, Senior Justice of the Supreme Court of Virginia, and William K. Barlow and Matt Lohr, members of the Virginia House of Delegates.
Outside of public service, Virginia Tech alumni have made notable contributions in the fields of business, literature, music and journalism. These include children's book author and Newbery Medal recipient Kwame Alexander; author and former NASA engineer Homer Hickham; jazz guitarist Charlie Byrd; business executive Donaldson Brown; Boeing president and CEO Dave Calhoun; Norfolk Southern president and CEO Alan Shaw and television news anchor Hoda Kotb.
Notable Virginia Tech athletes include Nickeil Alexander-Walker, Frank Beamer, Allan Bristow, Kam Chancellor, Bimbo Coles, Dell Curry, Ace Custis, Renee Dennis, Bill Dooley, Jim Druckenmiller, Terrell Edmunds, Tremaine Edmunds, Bud Foster, Kendall Fuller, Kyle Fuller, Chuck Hartman, Sally Miles, Charles Moir, Johnny Oates, Bruce Smith, Tyrod Taylor, DeAngelo Hall, Isaiah Ford, Angela Tincher, and Michael Vick.[127]

Blacksburg is an incorporated town in Montgomery County, Virginia, United States, with a population of 44,826 at the 2020 census. Blacksburg, and the surrounding county is dominated economically and demographically by the presence of Virginia Tech.[5]
Blacksburg, Christiansburg, and the city of Radford are the three principal jurisdictions of the Blacksburg-Christiansburg Metropolitan Statistical Area, which encompasses those jurisdictions and all of Montgomery, Pulaski, and Giles counties for statistical purposes. The MSA has an estimated population of 181,863[6] and is currently one of the faster-growing MSAs in Virginia.
Blacksburg High School, which in 2013 opened a new building,[7] is often ranked among the top schools of the nation for its academics. Its soccer, track, and cross-country teams are also among the top in the state .[citation needed]
In the mid-1600s, English colonists were still uncertain of what lay beyond the Allegheny Mountains, whose topography and possession by native inhabitants, Tutelo-speaking tribes, were a barrier to expanded settlement by the Colony of Virginia. Abraham Wood, who commanded Fort Henry on the frontier (now the site of Petersburg, Virginia), and operated an Indian trading post nearby, organized several expeditions to explore farther west. A passage over the ridge was finally found in 1671 when explorers Batts and Fallam, sent by Wood, reached the present-day location of Blacksburg, Virginia. Their expedition followed Stroubles Creek, through the current locations of the town and campus of Virginia Tech, to what they named Wood's River.
They reported the area as inhabited by the Monacan and Moneton, Siouan-speaking groups, but the Virginian colonial legislature had authorized Wood to claim it. Accordingly, on September 17, 1671, the Batts and Fallam party claimed all of the lands comprising the river's drainage basin for King Charles II. However, the region was not yet open to English patent. In 1700, Seneca warriors of the Iroquois Confederacy based in New York and Pennsylvania, overran the entire area, driving out the other bands. As early as 1718, the Seneca had agreed to sell the parts they had conquered east of the Blue Ridge to the Colony of Virginia. Following another cession at the 1744 Treaty of Lancaster, however, there was a dispute between the tribe and colonists over whether the new boundary was the Alleghenies or the Ohio River. The site of Blacksburg lay just within this disputed zone.
By the 1740s, the Wood's River Land Company, represented by Colonel James Patton, gained a large tract of land within present-day southwest Virginia. Part of the tract became Montgomery County and Pulaski County and was sold to Virginian, Irish, Scots-Irish, and English settlers as a reward for their services during the American Indian Wars and other wars. The Draper and Ingles families were among those who built their homes at Draper's Meadow by 1748; this area was between the present location of the campus and the subdivision of Hethwood.
Because of its strategic location between powerful Indian nations, who alternately allied with the French or British as it suited them, plus its location through gaps into the Alleghenies further west, the area's development was viewed with increasing apprehension by the French and their Indian allies. In July 1755, during the French and Indian War, hostile Shawnee Indians equipped and armed by France attacked the frontier outpost at Draper's Meadow, which then had around twenty pioneer settlers. About four settlers were killed in the attacks, and five were taken captive to Kentucky by the Shawnee, among them Mary Draper Ingles, who later escaped. The memorial to Draper's Meadow massacre was dedicated on a bridge located near Duck Pond. By the end of the war, Draper's Meadow was deserted.[8][9]
By the Treaty of Easton (1758), and again by the Royal Proclamation of 1763, the British Crown made the Allegheny ridge separating the Mississippi and Chesapeake watersheds the official boundary between their Virginia colony and native peoples. It remained so until 1768, when native claims to the land including Blacksburg were cleared by the Treaty of Hard Labour with the Cherokee, and the Treaty of Fort Stanwix with the Six Nations (Iroquois Confederacy). The Shawnee finally abandoned their claim to this territory in 1774 following Dunmore's War.
Samuel Black, whose family settled in Staunton, Virginia, bought 600 acres (2.4 km2) of land in the Draper's Meadow area for his sons John and William in 1772. Smithfield Plantation, built in approximately 1774 by Colonel William Preston,[9] was developed on the original Draper's Meadow site, near the current location of the Duck Pond on the Virginia Tech campus.
When Samuel Black died in 1792, the land was evenly divided into two sections by his sons. The road now known as Draper Road is the dividing line between the sections. John Black's property was later developed as the majority of the central campus of Virginia Tech.
In 1797, William Black laid out a small grid of streets and lots comprising 16 blocks on a portion of his land. The original town was limited to the area bounded by present-day Draper Road, Jackson Street, Wharton Street, and Clay Street.[8] The town logo contains 16 small squares that create a larger square, representing the original 16 square blocks that were a part of Black's design.
After Black petitioned the state legislature to establish a town at the site, the official establishment and founding of Blacksburg was January 13, 1798, on the 38.75-acre (15.68 ha) tract that he laid out.[10] The following August 4, he signed over the deed to the town trustees.[8] The town was named after him in his honor.
In 1808, a log cabin was built just east of Smithfield Plantation. Robert Preston, a future colonel of the 28th Virginia Infantry,[11] lived here, as did two Virginia governors. The cabin was later added to in the mid 19th century to create a Greek Revival farmhouse now known as Solitude, which is the oldest building on the Virginia Tech campus. In 1872, the 250 acre Solitude farm became the central campus of Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College, and the house, after the death of its owner in the following decade, served as a college infirmary from 1882 to 1886. It was later used for faculty housing.[12]
According to records of the Post Office Department of the National Archives and Records Administration, the post office was established as "BLACKSBURGH" on April 8, 1827. The name was changed to the current spelling (without the "h") in 1893.[13]
The Methodists had built two cabins to worship in since the town's founding, but they did not build a more permanent structure until 1830, when they constructed a brick church.[14] The Presbyterians were the next Christian denomination to build a church within Blacksburg's limits. In 1848 they built their first brick building[15] at 117 South Main Street. Though still standing, this building has not been used as a church for many years.[14] It was once South Main Café,[16] but is currently used as a restaurant called Cabo Fish Taco.[17] It is also the oldest building on Main Street.[15] The Baptists founded the third oldest church in the town in 1852.[14]
In 1832, Westview Cemetery was established from a few acres of land that were deeded to trustees.[14]

One of the first educational establishments started here was the Blacksburg Female Academy in 1840.[16] The Olin and Preston Institute (re-charted as Preston and Olin Institute in 1869) was a Methodist-sponsored academy established in 1851.[18]
The first bank in Montgomery County, Blacksburg Savings Institution, was established in 1849.[16] The first newspaper published in Blacksburg was the Montgomery Messenger. Its first issue was printed in 1869.[18]
In 1871, the village that became known as Blacksburg was incorporated[13] and Thomas W. Jones became the first mayor.[19]
One year later, the Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College opened on October 2, 1872, with a faculty of three members.[13] The college grew and became known as Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, which shortly afterward became informally referred to as Virginia Tech. It is a Virginia land-grant university.
A fire-fighting unit was organized within the university in 1899.[14] The town bought its first fire truck 43 years later.[16] The Blacksburg First Aid and Life Saving Crew was founded in 1951 and renamed Blacksburg Volunteer Rescue Squad in another addition to the growing amount of emergency services.[16]
The first automobile came through the town in 1901. Three years later the train entered Blacksburg from Christiansburg using the Virginia Anthracite & Coal Railroad, which later became known as the "Huckleberry."[20] Traffic in Blacksburg increased sufficiently enough that by January 1913 the town voted against allowing cows to continue to roam in town. The first filling station was opened in 1919 and at the time was the only one between Roanoke, Virginia, and Bluefield, West Virginia.[20] The town's first landing strip was built in 1929 and was 1,800 feet (548.64 m) in length. The grass landing strip was given airport status in 1931 and later became Virginia Tech Airport. Local buses began to make their rounds for the first time in 1947.[16]
The town's first theater was built in 1909. It was a precursor to the Lyric Theatre on College Avenue.[21]

In the spring of 1935, Main Street was strung with ten street lights from Roanoke Street northward to the top of the hill, where it now intersects the Alumni Mall. By October the town's second stoplight was installed on Main Street at Roanoke Street and was synchronized with the original one at Main and College.[20] The establishment of official law enforcement began in 1937 when Officer Dave "Highpockets" Sumner became the first Blacksburg police officer. The first police car was purchased nine years later.[16]
Blacksburg experienced a boost of compulsory education during the second half of the 20th century. Even though there had been a place for secondary education somewhere in town since 1906, it was not until 1952 when the first facility for Blacksburg High School was built on South Main and Eheart Streets. Later it moved to new quarters and was adapted as Blacksburg Middle School. That same year, all high schools in Montgomery County began operating on a twelve-grade basis which is still county policy to this day.[22]
The Margaret J. Beeks Elementary School and the Gilbert F. Linkous Elementary School were both completed in 1963 and Harding Avenue Elementary School was built in 1972.[16] Two years later, in 1974, Blacksburg High School moved its location to Patrick Henry Drive after 20 years of issues with overcrowding in its previous location.[22]
Jack Goodwin was appointed the first chief of police by the Blacksburg Town Council in 1954. Jan Olinger was made the first female police officer in 1976.[16]
1958 marked the beginning of the end for the railroad that came to be known as the "Huckleberry." In the 1960s, however, railroads underwent restructuring. Passenger service came to an end on July 25. On June 30, 1966, the last freight train arrived at the Blacksburg depot. Within 24 hours, the depot was closed, the empty cars were picked up, and the tracks were immediately removed.[20] After years of effort by the citizens of the town a trail was constructed on the former railroad right-of-way and, after years of construction, funding and planning issues the Huckleberry Trail was opened to the public on December 1, 1998. 190 years after its original construction, the newly renovated Smithfield Plantation house was re-opened in 1964.[16]
The amount of commercialization in the area began to increase in the mid-1960s. The Corning Glass Works (now called Corning Incorporated), based in upper New York State, opened a manufacturing facility in 1964 that is located south of Blacksburg. The Blacksburg Municipal Building on South Main Street was constructed in 1969.[16] Terrace View apartments, the first large student complex, was built in 1970. The Blacksburg Branch of the Montgomery County Library was opened the same year. Ten years later, it was moved into the facility that used to house the Blacksburg Lumber Company on Draper Road. In 1971, Blacksburg ratified a new charter and LewisGale Hospital Montgomery was built. The University Mall shopping center opened that year as well. In the mid 1970s the Foxridge apartments, an even larger student apartment complex, was built as part of the Hethwood development. During 1981, the Blacksburg Community Center opened. It cost the town $1.2 million to build.[16] By 1988, the New River Valley Mall, located in the neighboring town of Christiansburg, was opened[20] and the Virginia Tech Corporate Research Center had its first ground-breaking ceremony.[18]
After construction of Virginia's portion of Interstate 81 began in 1957, nine years passed before the Christiansburg-area segment was opened.[23] About half that amount of time passed before the U.S. Route 460 bypass opened in 1969.[16]
In the 1970s, Virginia Tech was annexed into the town and the town acquired other land. Together with the effect of the annexations, the population grew from 9,000 people to 30,000 during this decade. Replacing the old public bus system, Blacksburg Transit began running in 1983.[24]
Blacksburg is the site of the Blacksburg Electronic Village or BEV, conceived as a computer networking project of Virginia Tech in 1991 and officially born in 1993 as a way to link the town together using the Internet. This project quickly ushered the town into what is being called the Information Age.
In 1994, Montgomery County Public Schools completed construction of Kipps Elementary School at 2801 Prices Fork Road.[16] By this time, Blacksburg had five elementary schools, a middle school, and a high school.[22] A newly renovated Blacksburg branch library was opened in 1996.[16]
In the aftermath of railroad restructuring, many rail lines were abandoned. After 24 years of abandonment and six years of planning and construction, the first phase of the Huckleberry Trail built on the old Huckleberry railbed opened in 1996. The second phase of construction was completed in 1998.[16] In 2019, the Blacksburg Rotary Mountain Bike Skills Park opened with funding from Blacksburg Parks and Recreation and donations.
On July 8, 1997, ground was broken for the experimental "Smart Road" project. The second phase of construction was completed in 2002.[25] The road is currently closed to the public and used as a research test bed for the Virginia Tech Transportation Institute. A National Weather Service office is located in Blacksburg and serves most of southwestern Virginia, southeast West Virginia, and northwest North Carolina.
In 2003, the new building for Blacksburg Middle School students opened on Prices Fork Road adjacent to the property housing Kipps Elementary School.
On April 16, 2007, Seung-Hui Cho shot 32 people dead and injured an additional 17 in the Virginia Tech shooting before committing suicide. The massacre is the deadliest mass shooting on a college campus since the University of Texas tower shooting in 1966.
On January 21, 2009, Zhu Haiyang decapitated Yang Xin at Virginia Tech in the first campus murder since the Virginia Tech shooting.[26]
On February 13, 2010, following a snowstorm that dropped two feet of snow on the area, the gymnasium roof on the previously occupied Blacksburg High School suffered a catastrophic structural failure and collapsed, causing structural damage to other areas of the school. The school building was condemned and students attended night school on a split schedule with the Blacksburg Middle School students at their school for the remainder of the year. It was determined that repair costs would exceed $18 million and would not be feasible given the age of the school; it was decided not to repair the building. Before the school year of 2013-14 Blacksburg High School was operating on a normal schedule out of the Blacksburg Middle School building on 3109 Prices Fork Road, and the middle schoolers were going to school in the old Christiansburg Middle School. The original Blacksburg High School building was vacant until it was demolished in the Summer of 2011. The newly constructed school building of Blacksburg High School which opened for the 2013 fall semester is located at 3401 Bruin Lane, behind the current Blacksburg Middle School and Bill Brown Football Stadium.[7]
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 19.89 square miles (51.5 km2) of which 19.89 square miles (51.5 km2) is land and 0.04 square miles (0.10 km2), or 0.10%, is water. At 2,080 feet (634 m) above sea level, Blacksburg is located in the New River Valley and also sits astride the Eastern Continental Divide. It is the 15th largest municipality[27] and the largest town in the commonwealth of Virginia.[28] The Eastern Continental Divide traverses the Virginia Tech Montgomery Executive Airport.
The tallest building in Blacksburg is Slusher Tower, a twelve-story residence hall on the Virginia Tech campus. The building with the highest elevation is actually Hoge Hall (formerly Lee Hall), another residence hall, which until May 17, 2009, was home to the transmitter of campus radio station WUVT. The tower for WUVT now sits atop Price Mountain.[29]
Due to its elevation, the climate of Blacksburg is a hot-summer humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification: Dfa), being cooled down from the lowland areas, all of which possess a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification: Cfa). Summers are humid with warm to hot temperatures, although the area sees significantly cooler temperatures than places of lower elevation at the same latitude, with only 5 days of 90 °F (32 °C)+ highs annually.[30] Winters are generally cool to cold, with occasional intervening warm periods and an average of 0.9 nights of sub-0 °F (−18 °C) lows.[30] Monthly mean temperatures range from 31.9 °F (−0.1 °C) in January to 71.7 °F (22.1 °C) in July. Snowfall averages 24.7 inches (63 cm) per season and generally occurs from December to March, although significant snowfall has been recorded outside of those months.
Blacksburg is served primarily by US 460, a four-lane highway that connects I-81 at Christiansburg, 10 miles to the south, and to I-77 at Princeton, West Virginia. Driving from Blacksburg to its larger metro neighbor, Roanoke, via US 460 and I-81, usually requires less than an hour. 
Blacksburg Transit (BT) provides bus transportation primarily to and from the campus of Virginia Tech. Students and faculty ride the BT fare free with a flat payment included in the cost of tuition. Virginia Tech subsidizes BT for this service. Transportation is available to anyone for a fee, and during special events the service is often free. Blacksburg Transit also offers shuttle service to non-students on Virginia Tech Football game days for $5 to be transported from outlying parking areas to the stadium.[32]
The Smart Way Bus, a regional commuter bus service operated by Valley Metro (Roanoke), provides connecting service between Virginia Tech, downtown Blacksburg, Christiansburg, Roanoke–Blacksburg Regional Airport, and Roanoke, where riders can transfer to an Amtrak train.
At nearby Roanoke–Blacksburg Regional Airport, there are scheduled commercial flights to Atlanta, Charlotte, Chicago–O'Hare, New York–LaGuardia, Orlando/Sanford, Philadelphia, St. Petersburg/Clearwater, and Washington–Dulles, and there are seasonal charter flights to Atlantic City.
Virginia Tech Montgomery Executive Airport, located in the Town of Blacksburg, has general aviation, air taxi, and military flights.
As of the 2020 U.S. census,[34] there were 44,826 people residing in the town.
As of the 2000 census,[3] there were 39,573 people, 13,162 households, and 4,777 families residing in the town. The population density was 2,044.2 people per square mile (789.2/km2). There were 13,732 housing units at an average density of 709.4 per square mile (273.9/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 84.39% White, 4.39% African American, 0.11% Native American, 7.80% Asian, 0.06% Pacific Islander, 0.90% from other races, and 2.36% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.32% of the population.
There were 13,162 households, out of which 16.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 28.7% were married couples living together, 5.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 63.7% were non-families. 26.6% of all households were made up of individuals, and 3.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.37 and the average family size was 2.79.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 9.7% under the age of 18, 57.4% from 18 to 24, 18.9% from 25 to 44, 9.2% from 45 to 64, and 4.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 22 years. For every 100 females, there were 127.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 129.7 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $22,513, and the median income for a family was $51,810. Males had a median income of $37,129 versus $24,321 for females. The per capita income for the town was $13,946. About 15.9% of families and 43.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 23.7% of those under the age of 18 and 6.1% ages 65 or older.
The Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), which includes the town of Christiansburg, the independent city of Radford, and all of Montgomery, Pulaski, and Giles counties has an estimated population of 181,863 and is currently one of the faster-growing MSAs in Virginia.
About 87% of the town's residents have in-home Internet access with 65% using a broadband connection.[27] Eighty-five percent of the community has a college education,[27] seventy percent of which were graduates of Virginia Tech.
The Virginia Tech Corporate Research Center is home to several companies of varying sizes including Honeywell, and the National Weather Service which maintains its Southwestern Virginia headquarters there. The town is also home to MOOG, a major supplier for the defense department and the health care industry and Rackspace, who acquired locally based Mailtrust/Webmail.us in 2007. The town and county continue to recruit major industry to the area. Due to its close proximity to Virginia Tech and Radford University, Blacksburg is an ideal location for developing high tech industry.
According to Blacksburg's 2022 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report,[35] the top employers in the town are:
Blacksburg is governed by a Town Council of six members and a mayor. Elections take place in odd-numbered years, in November. Council members are elected for four-year terms. The town’s mayor is an elected office. Leslie Hager-Smith was first elected mayor in 2017 and was re-elected in 2021.
Blacksburg's sister city is San José de Bocay, in the mountains of northern Nicaragua.[47][48]
The Virginia Tech Hokies are the athletic teams representing Virginia Tech in intercollegiate athletics. The Hokies participate in the NCAA's Division I Atlantic Coast Conference in 22 varsity sports. Virginia Tech's men's sports are football, basketball, baseball, cross country, golf, soccer, swimming and diving, tennis, indoor and outdoor track and field, and wrestling. Virginia Tech's women's sports are basketball, cross country, lacrosse, soccer, softball, swimming and diving, tennis, indoor and outdoor track and field, golf, and volleyball.
Virginia Tech's individual athletes have won 21 individual national titles in various track and field events, wrestling, and swimming. Though not affiliated with the NCAA, Virginia Tech won the 2007 national championship of bass fishing.[2] The Hokie men's basketball team won the 1973 and 1995 NIT tournaments and went to the Sweet Sixteen of NCAA tournament in 1967 and 2019. The Hokies football team lost to Florida State in the 2000 Sugar Bowl (BCS National Championship Game) and finished the 1999 season with a #2 ranking in the BCS Poll.

Virginia Tech's sports teams are called the "Hokies". The word "Hokie" originated in the "Old Hokie" spirit yell created in 1896 by O. M. Stull for a contest to select a new spirit yell when the college's name was changed from Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College (VAMC) to Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College and Polytechnic Institute (VPI) and the original spirit yell, which referred to the old name, was no longer usable. Stull won, and received a $5 award.
Hoki, Hoki, Hoki, Hy.
Techs, Techs, VPI!
Sola-Rex, Sola-Rah.
Polytechs—Vir-gin-ia.
Rae, Ri, V.P.I
Later, the phrase "Team! Team! Team!" was added at the end, and an "e" was added to "Hoki".
Stull later said that he made up the word as an attention-grabber. Though he may not have known it, "Hokie" (in its various forms) has been around at least since 1842. According to Johann Norstedt, now a retired Virginia Tech English professor, "[Hokie was] a word that people used to express feeling, approval, excitement, surprise. Hokie, then, is a word like 'hooray' or 'yeah', or 'rah'." Whatever its original meaning, the word in the popular cheer did, as Stull wanted, grab attention and has been a part of Virginia Tech tradition ever since.[3]
The official university school colors—Chicago Maroon and Burnt Orange—also were introduced in 1896. The colors were chosen by a committee because they made a "unique combination" not worn elsewhere at the time.[4]
The team mascot is the HokieBird, a turkey-like creature. The teams were originally known as the "Fighting Gobblers" and the turkey motif was retained despite the name change.
The stylized VT (the abbreviation for Virginia Tech) is used primarily by the athletic department as a symbol for Virginia Tech athletic teams. The "athletic VT" symbol is trademarked by the university and appears frequently on licensed merchandise.
During the early years of the university, a rivalry developed between the Virginia Military Institute and Virginia Tech, then called VPI. This rivalry developed into the original "Military Classic of the South," which was an annual football game between VMI and VPI on Thanksgiving Day in Roanoke, Virginia. This rivalry continued until 1970 when Tech's football program became too large and too competitive for VMI. Today, Tech's major athletic rivalries include the Virginia Cavaliers (see Virginia-Virginia Tech rivalry), the West Virginia Mountaineers, and the Miami Hurricanes.
Virginia Tech's fight song, Tech Triumph, was written in 1919 and remains in use today. Tech Triumph is played at sporting events by both the Virginia Tech band, The Marching Virginians, and the Corps of Cadets' band, the Highty Tighties. The Old Hokie spirit yell, in use since 1896, is familiar to all Tech fans.
Many of Tech's more modern traditions were adopted after the construction of Lane Stadium in 1964. Virginia Tech's football traditions and the school's fans are the subject of a 2007 full-length documentary called Hokie Nation[5] which features a mix of interviews with coaches, players and fans as well as a look at Hokie football history and the direction of the program.
Tech teams participate in the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC), which the school joined in 2003 after a tumultuous trek through five different conferences in the previous decade, most recently leaving the Big East in the controversial ACC expansion.
In 1921, Virginia Tech joined the Southern Intercollegiate Conference (now Southern Conference), which contained 19 schools by 1922, all current members of the ACC or Southeastern Conference (SEC). In 1932, thirteen schools left the then-gigantic Southern Conference to form the SEC and in 1953, seven more teams left to form the ACC.[7]
Frank Moseley, Virginia Tech's director of athletics and football coach, believed that the new Southern Conference was a lower tier of competition and sought membership in the ACC, but was turned down. In 1965, Tech left the Southern Conference to become independent. In 1977, Virginia Tech once again sought admission to the ACC and was once again rejected.[8]
In 1978, Virginia Tech joined the Metro Conference, winning the conference men's basketball championship in their first year.

In 1991, Virginia Tech was invited to join the Big East Conference for football only. Members of the Big East football conference included Boston College, Miami, Pittsburgh, Rutgers, Syracuse, Temple, Virginia Tech, and West Virginia.[9]  In 1994, Virginia Tech was turned down for full membership in the Big East.[10]
In January 1995, Virginia Tech and Virginia Commonwealth University were ousted from the Metro Conference and subsequently filed a lawsuit against the conference.[11]  The lawsuit was settled when Metro agreed to pay the Hokies $1,135,000 and Virginia Tech joined the Atlantic 10 Conference, along with fellow newcomers Dayton and LaSalle in June 1995.[12]
In 1999, the Big East agreed to accept Virginia Tech as a full member in all sports. Virginia Tech ultimately paid $8.3 million to join the conference, $1.1 million of which was actually paid after the school left.[13]
In April 2003, Mike Tranghese, commissioner of the Big East, dropped a bombshell — that the ACC was secretly trying to lure away Big East members.[14]  Over the next several months, the ACC held meetings and discussions. Ultimately, Virginia Tech was invited to join the conference, along with Miami. Boston College was added the following year. Virginia Tech finally had achieved what Frank Moseley had sought so long ago — membership in the ACC.
When Virginia Tech was invited to join the ACC, former Roanoke Times sports editor Bill Brill expressed his displeasure, saying "Virginia Tech will not win an ACC championship in my lifetime."[15] When Virginia Tech's football team proceeded to do precisely that in their very first season in the league, Brill's house in Chapel Hill, North Carolina received hundreds of mocking phone calls from angry Virginia Tech fans, curious to learn when the funeral arrangements would be held.[16]
Virginia Tech's football team plays home games in Lane Stadium. With a capacity of 66,233, Lane is relatively small in comparison to many other top FBS stadiums, yet it is still considered to be one of the loudest stadiums in the country. In 2005, it was recognized by rivals.com as having the best home-field advantage in college football.[17]
Since the 1995 season, the Hokies have finished with a top-10 ranking five times, won seven conference championships (three Big East and four ACC), and played once for the national championship, losing to Florida State 46–29 in the 2000 Sugar Bowl. Annually, Virginia Tech plays its traditional rival, the University of Virginia, for the Commonwealth Cup, a series which Virginia Tech leads 59-38-5.[18]
Frank Beamer was the Hokies' head coach from 1987 to 2015, and was the winningest active head coach in FBS football with 280 wins following the 2015 season. Coach Beamer ended his tenure as head coach with a win in the Independence Bowl in Shreveport, LA, where the Bowl streak began in 1993.[19] Beamer's teams were known for solid special teamsplay (called "Beamer Ball") and for tough defenses headed by defensive coordinator Bud Foster. In 2018, Beamer was selected to join the 2018 College Football Hall of Fame.[20]
On November 29, 2015, Virginia Tech Director of Athletics Whit Babcock announced that Justin Fuente was hired from the University of Memphis to succeed the retiring Frank Beamer. In Fuente's first season, Virginia Tech won the ACC Coastal Division and he was named the ACC Coach of the Year.[21]
Virginia Tech's men's basketball team plays home games in Cassell Coliseum. They have enjoyed moderate success in the postseason, making the NCAA Tournament 11 times.
Virginia Tech's men's basketball team saw a resurgence of fan support since the arrival of coach Seth Greenberg in 2003–04 and the university's entry into the ACC in 2004–05. Prior to Coach Greenberg's arrival in Blacksburg, the men's basketball team had not had a winning season since the 1995–96 season, when they received a bid to the NCAA tournament.
In 2003–04, Greenberg's squad made the Big East tournament. A year later, in their first season in the ACC, the Hokies scored their first postseason berth in nine years when they made the NIT in 2004–05. In the 2006–07 season, Greenberg's Hokies finished with a 10–6 record in the ACC and a 22–12 record overall, earning their first NCAA tournament berth in 11 years, reaching the NCAA second round before losing to Southern Illinois.
In March 2014, Virginia Tech Director of Athletics Whit Babcock announced the hiring of Buzz Williams as the Hokies' new head men's basketball coach. Williams spent the previous six seasons as the head coach at Marquette University, where he compiled a 139–69 record and led the Golden Eagles to five NCAA appearances and a Big East Conference regular season title. During Williams's tenure, Marquette tallied a 69–39 record in the Big East Conference, and six Marquette players made it to the NBA.[22]
In the Buzz Williams era, Virginia Tech made NCAA Men's Tournament appearances in the 2017, 2018, and 2019 seasons, making it the first time in school history that Virginia Tech has made the NCAA Men's Tournament three years in a row. In the 2019 NCAA Tournament, Virginia Tech advanced to the Sweet Sixteen for the first time since 1967.
In April 2019, Whit Babcock announced the hiring of Mike Young after Buzz Williams left to become the head coach at Texas A&M. On March 12, 2022, Young led the Hokies to the ACC Tournament title for the first time in school history.[23] The tournament final was played against Mike Krzyzewski's Duke Blue Devils in Coach K's final ACC tournament game. Tech, the seven seed, won 82-67 and only reached the final after beating Clemson, Notre Dame, and North Carolina in consecutive nights. The Hokies were the first seven seed to win the tournament in its long history.
Virginia Tech's women's basketball team is led by coach Kenny Brooks and competes in the ACC. Under former coaches Beth Dunkenberger and Bonnie Henrickson, the program was a fixture in postseason play. The Hokies have received nine berths to the NCAA tournament since the program's first in 1994. Virginia Tech's women have also earned five NIT appearances during that stretch including back-to-back appearances in 2016 and 2017.[24] They play their home games in Cassell Coliseum.
Women's soccer at Virginia Tech began in 1980 with two club teams under the guidance of Everett Germain and his two daughters, Betsy and Julie. Kelly Cagle was head coach from 2002 to 2010, leaving with a record of 76–70–15 and three consecutive NCAA trips. She was succeeded by Charles "Chugger" Adair.[25] Under Adair the Hokie Women's Soccer quad has spent numerous weeks ranked in the top 25 during their 2012 campaign. During the 2013 season Virginia Tech ranked in the top 5 making it to the Final Four for the first time in school history.[26] The women's team has now been to 6 straight NCAA tournaments 2008–2013 having two Sweet Sixteen finishes and one Final Four finish.
Virginia Tech's men's soccer team has improved greatly since the arrival of Oliver Weiss, who has coached the team since 2000. Under Weiss, Tech has made four NCAA tournament appearances, including a trip to the College Cup in 2007. The Hokies' trip to the College Cup is the equivalent of men's basketball Final Four and was the soccer team's most successful season. The Hokies finished the 2007 regular season ranked third nationally.[27]
Chuck Hartman, who retired as the Virginia Tech baseball coach in 2006, finished his career as the fourth winningest coach in Division I baseball history with a 1,444–816–8 record, including a 961–591–18 mark in his 28 seasons at Tech, the best record of any baseball coach in history at Tech.
The team is currently coached by John Szefc.[28]

Since starting its varsity program in 1996, the Virginia Tech softball team has played in six conference championship games, winning both the ACC regular season and tournament titles in 2007.[29] Under head coach Scot Thomas and behind the strength of one of the nation's best college pitchers, senior All-American Angela Tincher,[30] the Hokies made their fourth consecutive NCAA tournament appearance in 2008. On May 25, 2008, they defeated the fourth-seeded Michigan Wolverines to advance to their first College World Series, though the Hokies were held scoreless during that appearance and were quickly eliminated in two games.[31] Virginia Tech Softball upset the USA national team in a 1–0 no hitter in 2008[32] and advanced to the Women's College World Series for the first time ever.[33] Scot Thomas helped start the program in 1996 and celebrated his 600th win during the 2012 season. He was fired following the conclusion of the 2018 season after two consecutive losing seasons.
Since joining the ACC, the Virginia Tech Softball team has won two Conference Titles in 2007 and 2008. On May 31, 2018, Pete D'Amour was announced as the new head coach of the Virginia Tech softball program.[34]
The men's golf team has won 12 conference championships:[35]
In 2007, Virginia Tech golfer Drew Weaver became the first American to win the British Amateur golf tournament since 1979. Weaver edged out 2006 Australian Amateur champion Tim Stewart and earned an invitation to the 2007 Open Championship.
Former Hokies that have won at the professional level include: Johnson Wagner (three PGA Tour wins), Adam Hunter (one European Tour win), and Brendon de Jonge (one Nationwide Tour win).
The Virginia Tech Wrestling program was founded in 1920. The team holds its matches at Cassell Coliseum and practices in the training room on the third floor of the football locker room facility, renovated in 2010.[36]
In 2006, Kevin Dresser was named the head coach of the wrestling program. The team won the 2014 ACC Tournament, led by captain Devin Carter, who was named Tournament MVP. The Hokies finished 8th overall in team standings at the 2014 NCAA Championships. Devin Carter was the runner-up at 141 lbs and Virginia Tech's first ever NCAA Tournament finalist.[37]
During the 2014–15 season, a few select matches were held for the first time at the Moss Performing Arts Center on the Virginia Tech campus.
The Hokie Wrestling team won the 2015–16 regular season ACC dual meet title, after beating previously undefeated North Carolina State University in the last conference dual meet of the season. The team took second place at the 2016 ACC Tournament. The 2015–16 team also set program bests with six All-Americans and a fourth-place finish at the 2016 NCAA Division I Wrestling Championships, which is also the highest team finish for an ACC team ever. Kevin Dresser was named the 2016 NWCA Coach of the Year at the tournament.[37]
In 2017, Tony Robie became the wrestling program's head coach, following Kevin Dresser's departure to Iowa State.
In 2019, redshirt freshman Mekhi Lewis became the first Hokie wrestler to win a national championship for Virginia Tech. Before his 7–1 victory over two-time defending national champion Vincenzo Joseph of Penn State in the 165-pound finals, Lewis dispatched the number one seed Alex Marinelli of Iowa in the quarterfinals and the number four seed Evan Wick of Wisconsin in the semi-finals. For his remarkable three-day performance, Lewis was named Most Outstanding Wrestler of the tournament.
Virginia Tech Ice Hockey was formed in 1984. They joined the newly formed ACCHL in 1995 and have competed there ever since. The team won the regular season champion title during the 1996–97 season with a record of 13–1. The Hokies play out of the Berglund Center in Roanoke and drew the biggest crowd in team history of 5,200+ to the VT vs. UVA game on January 19, 2007. They became the first non-Carolina team to win the Canes Cup on January 14, 2007 by defeating the Duke University Blue Devils, NC State University Wolfpack and the East Carolina University Pirates. During the 2010–2011 season, the Hokies turned towards a more competitive conference, the Mid-Atlantic Collegiate Hockey Association (MACHA), where they play in the same division against Liberty, East Carolina, Maryland, and UMBC. In the 2011–2012 season, the Hokies earned a berth in the ACHA Division II National Tournament for the first time in program history, finishing 12th in the nation.  The Hokies captured their first MACH championship in 2013 by defeating (3) Liberty, (2) UMBC, and (1) Penn State in succession.
The Virginia Tech rugby team was founded in 1968, although the first recorded college rugby match in Blacksburg dates back to 1891.[38] Virginia Tech rugby plays in the Big East conference against its traditional ACC rivals. Tech rugby plays an annual rivalry match against University of Virginia for the Commonwealth Shield.[39] The Hokies are supported by the Tech Rugby Alumni Association, which has established an endowment managed by the Virginia Tech Foundation that provides for limited scholarships for rugby players.[40] The Hokies are led by head coach Carlos Dominguez.
The Hokies have been successful in rugby sevens. The Hokies finished third in their conference in spring 2012.[41] The Hokies won the college division of the July 2012 Cape Fear 7s tournament.[42] The Hokies also defeated other ACC teams to win the 2012 Virginia Tech 7s, beating NC State 22–5 in the final.[43] In 2012, the Hokies defeated Virginia 33-31 to win the Atlantic Coast Rugby League 7s, automatically qualifying for the 2012 USA Rugby Sevens Collegiate National Championships. Winning the 2012 ARRL 7s also qualified the Hokies for the 2013 Collegiate Rugby Championship, the highest profile competition in college rugby, broadcast live on NBC from PPL Park in Philadelphia.
The Hokies claimed the 2021 D1-AA National Championship with a dominant tournament run featuring wins over Salisbury (91-0), Boise State (27-11), and West Chester (37-15). The following year, they repeated as champions, defeating the Louisville Cardinals in the 2022 D1-AA Championship Final (24-22).[44]
The Virginia Tech College Bass team was founded in the 2006–2007 school year, and won their first national title that same year.[45]
The Virginia Tech Club Field Hockey team was founded as a replacement of the D1 team in the 1990s. The team competes in the club-level National Field Hockey League, and won the league's championship in fall 2017.[46]
Virginia Tech, along with Kansas State and UCF, is one of only three Power Five conference schools that have not won an NCAA-recognized national championship in any varsity team sport.[47][a] The Hokies listed below have won individual National Championships.
Virginia Tech IMG Sports Network Station List

In the 1890s, a student named O.M. Stull, Class of 1896, won a $5 prize for coming up with a new spirit cheer, now known as “Old Hokie.” The original went:Hoki, Hoki, Hoki, Hy.
 Techs, Techs, V.P.I.
 Sola-Rex, Sola-Rah.
 Polytechs - Vir-gin-ia.
 Rae, Ri, V.P.I.Later, an “e” was added to “Hoki” to make “Hokie,” and “Team! Team! Team!” was attached to the end.What’s in a name?Significant academic changes in 1896 ushered in a new name more befitting the university’s higher profile — Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College and Polytechnic Institute, commonly known as Virginia Polytechnic Institute, or VPI.Virginia Tech colorsDuring 1896, a committee was formed to find a suitable combination of colors to replace the original colors of black and gray, which made athletic uniforms resemble prison garb. The committee selected burnt orange and Chicago maroon because no other college was using that particular color combination.Burnt orange and Chicago maroon was first worn during a football game against Roanoke College on October 26, 1896.Hokies were once called “Gobblers,” a nickname whose origin is widely disputed. One story claims it resulted from the way student athletes would “gobble” up their food.The name was already popular when Floyd Meade, a local resident, trained a large turkey to pull a cart at a football game in 1913. Throughout the years, trained turkeys would continue to gobble on command and perform stunts. In 1962, a student raised $200 for a costume; the result was an unusual turkey with a cardinal-like head, known as the Gobbler and then the Fighting Gobbler.When the Gobbler nickname fell out of favor, student George Wills sketched new designs for a class project. The updated mascot appeared at a football game in September 1981. The current HokieBird, which conveys power and strength, debuted in September 1987.Did you know? Students who dress as the HokieBird remain anonymous until commencement, when they reveal their secret by wearing HokieBird feet during the procession into Lane Stadium.Fight song

“Tech Triumph,” the university's most popular fight song, was composed in 1919 by Wilfred P. Maddux (Class of 1920) and his neighbor, Mattie Eppes. It was officially adopted by the student body in December 1919.Techmen, we’re Techmen, with spirit true and faithful,
 Backing up our teams with hopes undying;
 Techmen, oh, Techmen, we’re out to win today,
 Showing “pep” and life with which we’re trying;
 V.P., old V.P., you know our hearts are with you
 In our luck which never seems to die;
 Win or lose, we’ll greet you with a glad returning,
 You’re the pride of V.P.I.Chorus:
 Just watch our men so big and active
 Support the Orange and Maroon. Let’s go Techs.
 We know our ends and backs are stronger,
 With winning hopes, we fear defeat no longer.
 To see our team plow through the line, boys.
 Determined now to win or die:
 So give a Hokie, Hokie, Hokie, Hy,
 Rae, Ri, old V.P.I."Alma Mater"

The "Alma Mater" was born in spring 1939 when Ernest T. Sparks (Class of 1940) composed music and L.G. Chase (Class of 1941) wrote lyrics for a student contest.Verse:
 Sing praise to Alma Mater dear,
 For V.P.I. we'll ever cheer;
 Come lift your voices, swell the song,
 Our loyalties to her belong.Chorus:
 So stand and sing, all hail to thee.
 VT, all hail to thee.Verse:
 The Orange and Maroon you see,
 That’s fighting on to victory;
 Our strife will not be long this day,
 For glory lies within this fray.Verse:
 All loyal sons and daughters, one,
 We raise our banner to the sun;
 Our motto brings a spirit true,
 That we may ever serve you.“Enter Sandman”

Written and recorded by the heavy metal band Metallica, “Enter Sandman” has been played in Lane Stadium since 2000 as the football team enters the field. The tradition of students jumping up and down during the song started on December 1, 2001, when a Marching Virginians band member started jumping during the song and was joined by his colleagues. The tradition eventually spread to the basketball teams’ entrances in Cassell Coliseum.The lunch pail

The famed Virginia Tech lunch pail symbolizes the blue-collar approach of the Hokies’ football defense, developed by assistant head coach and defensive coordinator Bud Foster. Foster’s Lunch Pail Defense Foundation provides scholarships for high school students from the New River and Roanoke valleys, as well as assisting the families of those awaiting organ transplants.In 1995, the original lunch pail was acquired by the mother-in-law of co-defensive coordinator Rod Sharpless. The pail once belonged to a coal miner, and after the record-setting defensive season, the lunch pail became an iconic element of the Hokie football lore. The battered and rusting pail, which now contains the names of the 32 Hokies who died in the tragedy on April 16, 2007, travels wherever the Hokies go, and its care is entrusted to a defensive leader.Game-Ball Run

Ranger Company, the Army ROTC company, has performed the Game-Ball Run every year since 1977, although the tradition likely originated with the Virginia Tech-VMI football games years before that.Members of Ranger Company run the game ball for 100 miles around campus during the week of the annual homecoming football game and then hold a ceremony the day of the game, which includes running the ball into the stadium.Firing cannons: Skipper

At a football game against Virginia Military Institute (VMI), two cadets from the Class of 1964 made a pact that they would build a cannon to outshine — or outblast — VMI’s “Little John.” The cadets, Homer Hadley “Sonny” Hickam (of “October Sky” fame) and Alton B. “Butch” Harper Jr., collected brass from fellow cadets and added it to metal provided by Hickam’s father. On its first firing, the eager cadets tripled the charge, which blew the hats off half the VMI Keydets and shook the glass in the pressbox windows of Roanoke’s Victory Stadium.
“Skipper” is named for President John F. Kennedy, who had been a PT-boat skipper. Today, Skipper is fired at football games and for other notable occasions.The first known organized competition against an off-campus team occurred in 1877 when the VAMC baseball team, which probably included townspeople, played Roanoke College and won by a record score of 53-13.The first effort to formalize athletic activities came in fall 1891 when the VAMC Athletic Association was established. The following year, a football team and tennis association were added. In one long-running and affectionately remembered football tradition, Tech played VMI in Roanoke on Thanksgiving Day for nearly 75 years.Women finally joined the athletics fold in 1970 with a swimming team. Women’s basketball followed in 1972.The Hokies have been a member of several conferences over the years. They joined the Atlantic Coast Conference in 2004. NCAA Division I-A men’s varsity sports at Tech are football, basketball, baseball, soccer, indoor and outdoor track, swimming and diving, wrestling, tennis, golf, and cross country. Women’s varsity sports are basketball, tennis, volleyball, swimming and diving, indoor and outdoor track, soccer, softball, lacrosse, golf, and cross country.The Student-Athlete Performance Center benefits recruiting, nutrition, and performance for all 22 varsity sports. And in 2021-22 academic year, over 350 of the university's student-athletes earned GPAs above 3.0.
Our oldest traditionThe Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets became official in the 1890s, drawing from the university’s origin in 1872 and its required military training for students. As the university changed and innovated, so did the corps. Mandated four-year participation in the corps for all males changed to two years in 1923 — the same year women were first admitted — and then participation became voluntary in 1964.
Today, Virginia Tech is one of three public universities in the country with both an active corps of cadets and a “civilian” lifestyle on its campus.Upper Quad
Centered in Virginia Tech’s early history, the university’s Upper Quad has long been the home of the Corps of Cadets. Lane Hall, completed in 1888, is a state and national historic landmark originally known as Barracks No. 1. In front of the hall is an orange and maroon sidewalk that forms the largest “VT” on campus.In recent updates, Pearson and New Cadet halls have replaced older cadet residence halls, and a new plaza between the halls displays the Corps’ monuments, honoring those who have served in the past and present.Marching in memory of Caldwell

The Corps of Cadets pay homage to the university’s beginnings and celebrate the progress of first-year cadets by retracing the walk Add Caldwell took from Craig County. Cadets cover the first 13 miles in the fall and the second 13 miles in the spring to mark the end to the first year of training.Hokie StoneVirginia Tech exhibits its character and pride every day via its buildings, most of which are made of Hokie Stone, a limestone common in Southwest Virginia. It was first used in campus building construction in 1899, and today, all new central campus buildings must bear the distinctive stone.Hewed by hand and varying from grays, browns, and blacks to pinks, oranges, and maroons, no two stones are the same color. Since the mid-1950s, the university has operated its own quarry.The Pylons and War Memorial Chapel
One of the most important and symbolic structures on campus, The Pylons above War Memorial Chapel bear the names of every Virginia Tech student and graduate who died defending our nation’s freedom, beginning with those lost during World War I. The Pylons evoke Virginia Tech’s core values. From left to right, they represent Brotherhood, Honor, Leadership, Sacrifice, Service, Loyalty, Duty, and Ut Prosim.


At the memorial’s center, the cenotaph displays the names of Virginia Tech’s seven Medal of Honor recipients.
April 16 Memorial
The April 16 Memorial, located on the Drillfield, remembers the 32 university community members who lost their lives on April 16, 2007.
The Hokie Stone symbolizes our relentless spirit, our courage to move forward, and our determination never to forget.
Gargoyles and grotesques
Their hunched bodies and contorted faces are the stuff of Hokie legend. At least 15 “gargoyles” at Virginia Tech fit right into our neo-Gothic architecture. And for some students, finding every one of them before graduation is a rite of passage.Functional gargoyles are waterspouts that move water away from the roof of a building. So while the “cowgoyles” of Saunders Hall might not function as waterspouts, they are a beloved decorative element.List of known gargoyles:In 1896, the university adopted Ut Prosim, Latin for "That I May Serve," as its motto, and a college seal was developed. The Virginia Tech Board of Visitors did not officially adopt the seal, which is still used, until 1963.In 1991, Virginia Tech adopted a university logo, which incorporates an image of the War Memorial with its eight pylons, each representing a different virtue.The inclusion of the numerals “1872,” the founding year of the university, reinforces the traditions of more than a century of service to the Commonwealth of Virginia, the nation, and the world.In 2017, a new brand platform and accompanying logo were launched. The new Virginia Tech mark is grounded in tradition, yet focused on the future. The lettering reflects our VT-shaped educational experience.The vertical bar of the T represents disciplinary depth, while the horizontal bar reflects the ability to work across disciplines. The arms of the V represent experiential learning and the spirit of Ut Prosim. The logo’s openness and shape highlight Virginia Tech’s identity as an inclusive community that thrives at the intersection of disciplines.The university also has an athletic logo: a streamlined “VT,” which is used only for sports and sports merchandise. Unveiled in 1984, the athletic logo is a composite of designs submitted by two Virginia Tech students to a competition sponsored by the university’s art department.Firming and building the foundationsJohn M. McBryde laid the foundations for modern-day Virginia Tech in the 1890s, including the development of B.S. degrees and graduate study, granting permanent status for the Corps of Cadets, and starting the athletics program. McBryde and his son also developed the university’s motto: Ut Prosim (That I May Serve).T. Marshall Hahn Jr. transformed VPI from college status to a major research university in the 1960s and 1970s. He championed the development of a university education and led the movement to create the research division. The student body tripled, and eight residence halls and 10 other major facilities were added.Charles W. Steger expertly guided the university’s growth and scope during the first 14 years of the 2000s. Research funding and private fundraising increased. He established the Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine and Research Institute and a school of biomedical engineering. He was a visionary leader for the Moss Arts Center and in elevating Virginia Tech’s presence in Northern Virginia.Colleges across the country offer students the chance to buy a class ring, but very few annually redesign the ring to be unique to each class. This tradition began at Virginia Tech in 1911-12, and the resulting ring always invokes memories, traditions, and pride.Each year, the sophomore class selects a Ring Committee to design their ring collection, which always includes the screaming eagle, American flag, campus buildings, and an interlocking chain around the bezel. From there, the Ring Committee incorporates characteristics unique to its class.Since 1934, couples have exchanged rings at the Virginia Tech Ring Dance to the tune of “Moonlight and VPI,” written specifically for the Ring Dance by composer Fred Waring and lyricist Charles Gaynor.Get Directions  See All Locations  Contact Virginia Tech  © 2023 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.
Virginia Tech / About All about Hokie StoneWhat is a Hokie? The origin of the word "Hokie" has nothing to do with a turkey. It was coined by O.M. Stull (class of 1896), who used it in a spirit yell he wrote for a competition.Here's how that competition came to be. Virginia Tech was founded in 1872 as a land-grant institution and was named Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College. In 1896, the Virginia General Assembly officially changed the college's name to Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College and Polytechnic Institute, a name so long that people shortened it in popular usage to VPI. The original college cheer, which made reference to the original name of the institution, was no longer suitable. So a contest was held to select a new spirit yell, and Stull won the $5 top prize for his cheer, now known as Old Hokie:Hoki, Hoki, Hoki, Hy.
Techs, Techs, V.P.I.
Sola-Rex, Sola-Rah.
Polytechs - Vir-gin-ia.
Rae, Ri, V.P.I.Later, the phrase "Team! Team! Team!" was added at the end, and an "e" was added to "Hoki."Since the university had a new name and a new yell, new college colors seemed to be a desirable next step. During 1896, a committee was formed to find a suitable combination of colors to replace the original colors of black and gray, which appeared in stripes on athletic uniforms and presented an image resembling prison uniforms.The committee selected burnt orange and Chicago maroon after discovering that no other college utilized this particular combination of colors. Burnt orange and Chicago maroon were officially adopted and were first worn during a football game versus nearby Roanoke College on Oct. 26, 1896.Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University officially opened on Oct. 1, 1872, as Virginia’s white land-grant institution (Hampton Normal and Industrial Institute, founded in 1868, was designated the commonwealth's first black land-grant school. This continued until 1920, when the funds were shifted by the legislature to the Virginia Normal and Industrial Institute in Petersburg, which in 1946 was renamed to Virginia State University by the legislature). During its existence, the university has operated under four different legal names. The founding name was Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College. Following a reorganization of the college in the 1890s, the state legislature changed the name to Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College and Polytechnic Institute, effective March 5, 1896. Faced with such an unwieldy name, people began calling it Virginia Polytechnic Institute, or simply VPI. On June 23, 1944, the legislature followed suit, officially changing the name to Virginia Polytechnic Institute. At the same time, the commonwealth moved most women’s programs from VPI to nearby Radford College, and that school’s official name became Radford College, Women’s Division of Virginia Polytechnic Institute. The commonwealth dissolved the affiliation between the two colleges in 1964. The state legislature sanctioned university status for VPI and bestowed upon it the present legal name, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, effective June 26, 1970. While some older alumni and other friends of the university continue to call it VPI, its most popular–and its official—nickname today is Virginia Tech.Also in 1896, the university adopted Ut Prosim, Latin for "That I May Serve," as its motto, and a college seal was developed. The Virginia Tech Board of Visitors did not officially adopt the seal, which is still used, until 1963.In 1991, Virginia Tech adopted a university logo, which incorporates an image of the War Memorial with its eight pylons, each representing a different virtue. The inclusion of the numerals "1872," the founding year of the university, reinforces the traditions of more than a century of service to the Commonwealth of Virginia, the nation, and the world.The former university logo was updated in 2006 after a yearlong study by a branding consultant, who worked closely with the university community to develop a representative tagline for Virginia Tech. That tagline — Invent the Future — expressed the future-altering and future-enhancing work of each facet of the Virginia Tech experience.In 2017, a new brand platform and accompanying logo was launched, while the former logo and tagline were retired. More can be read about the new platform at the brand site.  The university also has an athletic logo: a streamlined “VT,” which is used only for sports and sports merchandise. Unveiled in 1984, the athletic logo is a composite of designs submitted by two Virginia Tech art students — Lisa Eichler of Chesapeake, Va., and Chris Craft of Roanoke, Va. — to a competition sponsored by the university's art department. It replaced an older athletic logo that consisted of a large “V” with a “T” centered inside it, which had debuted in 1957.The origin of the term "Gobblers" is disputed, with one story claiming it was coined in the early 1900s as a description of how student athletes would "gobble" up their more than ample servings of food. Another story attributes it to the fact that the 1909 football coach, Branch Bocock, wanted to stimulate better spirit amongst his players and initiated them into an impromptu and informal "Gobbler Club."Thus, the name was already popular when Floyd Meade, a local resident chosen by the student body to serve as the school's mascot, had a large turkey pull him in a cart at a football game in 1913. The school's president halted the cart after one game because he thought it was cruel to the turkey. Meade continued to parade his mascot, which he had trained to gobble on command, up and down the sidelines — and did so until another "turkey trainer" took over in 1924 to continue the tradition. Enthusiastic fans and sports writers adopted the "Gobbler" nickname and began to use it regularly.In 1936, a costumed Gobbler joined the live gobbler for at least one game. The use of a live gobbler mascot continued into the 1950s, and the first permanent costumed Gobbler took the field in the fall of 1962.But the "Gobbler" was not to last, at least in name. In the late 1970s, the university hired a football coach who heard the theory that the Gobbler mascot was based on athletes gobbling down their food. The coach didn't like the image, so he began promoting the "Hokie" nickname.In 1982, the appearance of the Gobbler mascot costume was changed to one that looked like a maroon cardinal with a snood, and references first appeared to it as "the Hokie mascot," "the Hokie," and "the Hokie bird." The costume worn by today's HokieBird made its first appearance in 1987. HokieBird has won national mascot competitions and has been so popular that the mascot landed an appearance on Animal Planet's "Turkey Secrets."Tech Triumph, the university's most popular fight song, was composed in 1919 by Wilfred P. Maddux (class of 1920) and his neighbor, Mattie Eppes. It was officially adopted by the student body in December 1919. 

Virginia Tech exhibits its character and pride every day via its buildings, most of which are made of Hokie Stone. It was first used in campus building construction in 1899. Hokie stone is actually a native limestone common in Southwest Virginia and parts of Tennessee and Alabama. No two stones are the same color, varying from grays, browns, and blacks to pinks, oranges, and maroons. Since the mid-1950s, the university has operated its own quarry, and the popular limestone appears on many of the university’s buildings.The Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets is another tradition that distinguishes the university, which required corps participation for every able-bodied male for four years until 1923 and then for two years until 1964, when it became voluntary. Virginia Tech remains one of three public universities in the country (Texas A&M and North Georgia College and State University are the others) with both an active corps of cadets and "civilian" lifestyle on its campus.The Corps of Cadets is considered by many to be the keeper of traditions at Virginia Tech. Probably the oldest tradition in the Corps is the Honor Code: A cadet will not lie, cheat or steal, nor tolerate those that do. It has been central to the cadet experience for over a century. Many long-standing traditions have been modified over the years to reflect changes in society. One such custom is that of the junior-freshman mentor relationship. The tradition of "dyking"—slang for "decking", meaning decking out the junior cadet in formal uniform for Ring Dance—has evolved to today's mentoring program. The freshmen still help by supporting the juniors in all phases of getting ready for Ring Dance, but in today's leader development environment, juniors take on more of a mentoring role to help the freshmen navigate the challenges of their first cadet year.Another example of a continuing tradition that has been updated is that of Turn About Day, which is now called Shadow Day. In earlier days, Turn About Day was a day where the roles were reversed and the freshman class was in charge for one day, and all upperclassmen reverted to the freshman cadet role. Freshmen bid on upperclassman shirts for rank, bidding to become the company commander or regimental commander and the like, with the money going to charity. Today the same bidding process is conducted, with funds still going to a worthy cause—recently it went to the Matthew J. La Porte Scholarship in honor of the cadet lost on April 16th and to the Lauren Smith Scholarship in honor of the cadet who died last fall. The purpose of the event is to give each freshman a real glimpse into the responsibilities he or she will shoulder as they progress up the ranks. A relatively new tradition is the Caldwell March. This annual 26-mile hike has been conducted in two 13-mile segments annually since the year 2000. It recreates the trek made by Addison Caldwell as he went from his home in Craig County to the campus to register as the first student at the Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College in 1872.Devised as a way to introduce freshmen to their life as cadets, help turn them into adults and to keep them in line, the "rat" system was part of the Corps during the college's first 50 years. It was replaced in 1934 by a system of military and civilian rules. In the early years, sophomores dressed freshmen in a variety of costumes for an annual "rat parade," which featured rats marching through campus and town.Beginning no later than the 1960s, members of the Corps of Cadets have carried a Flaming VT through campus and sometimes into town before carting it to the Thursday night pep rallies, then held at the War Memorial. In the 1990s, the tradition was altered, and the cadets began carrying the Flaming VT to Homecoming pep rallies on Alumni Hall Lawn. The Flaming VT consists of a metal frame in the shape of a V with the T nested inside it. Toilet paper soaked in kerosene is woven through the frame and set ablaze.For more than fifty years of the early college, student discipline was often challenging for the administration and faculty. It occasionally was painful to the surrounding community and ultimately led to the removal of two early presidents. One tradition that emerged among the cadets was a single night of the year, Sophomore Night, during which "each succeeding class tried to outdo the preceding sophomores in the amount of mischief and destruction…" It came to a climax in 1925 when sophomores took cows to the top floor of the barracks, placed an assortment of farm vehicles and a horse drawn hearse on the roofs of barracks, brought two steam rollers from a highway construction job for a "bullfight," drove a grocery truck down a basement stairway, filled the quadrangle with numerous livestock, and hauled a fire hose reel up a flagpole. President Burruss' strong disciplinary action, that followed, ended forever the Sophomore Night tradition.Ranger Company, the Army ROTC company, has performed the Game-ball Run every year since 1977, although the tradition likely originated with the Virginia Tech-VMI football games years before that.This tradition consists of members of Ranger Company running the game ball for 100 miles around campus during the week of the annual Homecoming football game. The runners attend the Homecoming pep rally to rally the crowd and then hold a ceremony the day of the game, which includes running the ball into the stadium.Various cannons have been used off and on for years at Virginia Tech, but in the 1960s one industrious student formally proposed to the student governing body that a cannon be acquired to fire at football games. The proposal was approved but went no further.About the same time, two cadets from the class of 1964 made a pact at a traditional VPI-VMI Thanksgiving Day game that they would build a cannon for Virginia Tech (then known as VPI) to outshine — or outblast — Virginia Military Institute's "Little John." The cadets — Alton B. "Butch" Harper Jr. and Homer Hadley "Sonny" Hickam (of October Sky fame) — were tired of hearing VMI keydets chant "Where's your cannon?" after firing their own.Harper and Hickam collected brass from their fellow cadets, added it to metal donated by Hickam's father, collected donations from the corps to purchase other supplies, and used a mold created in one of the engineering departments from Civil War-style plans to make their cannon. They derived the name "Skipper" from the fact that President John Kennedy, who had just been assassinated, had been the skipper of a PT-boat, and they wanted to do something to honor him.On its first firing at the next game with VMI, the eager cadets tripled the charge, which blew the hats off half the VMI keydets and shook the glass in the press-box windows of Roanoke's Victory Stadium. They never heard the VMI chant again.Today, Skipper is fired outside Lane Stadium when the football team enters the field and when it scores.A tradition dating from 1934, the Virginia Tech Ring Dance symbolizes a hallmark in a Tech student's career. Upon entering the dance, each couple receives a pair of ribbons in the class colors. The lady wears her date's ring on her wrist with the darker colored ribbon, and the gentleman wears his date's ring on his wrist with the lighter colored ribbon. At the official Ring Exchange, the Corps of Cadets enter the ballroom and stand in the shape of the Class numerals. As each couple exchanges rings, "Moonlight and VPI," written specifically for the Ring Dance by composer Fred Waring and lyricist Charles Gaynor, is sung. As the clock strikes midnight, the evening ends with an elaborate fireworks display on the Drillfield, and the playing of "Silvertaps."The Class of 1935 held the first Ring Dance on April 27, 1934, where the ring figure, sabre arch, and presentation of the ring by the Junior's date were introduced. Since then, the fame of the Ring Dance has spread across the nation, introducing many memorable highlights. Always, the Ring Dance is a night to remember for those receiving their rings."Night after night we "dragged" the rats and learned to flip our sabres correctly. ... Friday finally rolled around and brought our dates... as well as V. M. I.'s ambassadors of good will. The reception at the S. A. B. formally opened our debut and after three years of waiting... the figure - the ring - and the kiss." (from the 1942 Virginia Tech Yearbook)Unique to Tech is the word "coofer" that was coined in the early 1940s to refer to tests or homework completed in an earlier course that is available to students taking the course later, and used as a means of studying or preparing. The term originated at Bluefield College, a former extension branch of VPI, and is likely derived from the word "coffer" (synonym for a strongbox). A student from Bluefield College transferred to the Blacksburg campus and first introduced the term. It is often used as a verb in such constructions as "to coofer a problem," also sometimes spelled "koofer."The Class of 1911 was the first at Virginia Tech to have a class ring. However, the Class Ring Tradition truly began in 1912 when the Class of 1914 chose a student committee to design a class ring, which would be unique and meaningful to class members. Today, Virginia Tech is one of only a few colleges and universities that maintains a traditional class ring program. Two major traditions combine to make the Virginia Tech Ring Program unique: the design and the presentation of the rings.Virginia Tech introduces an entirely newly designed collection for each class. Each year, the Sophomore class selects a Ring Committee responsible for designing their class ring collection. Each collection includes certain elements: the screaming eagle, American flag, campus buildings and an interlocking chain around the bezel. The screaming eagle evolved from a pair of twin eagles used on the first Virginia Tech ring, symbolizing the twin virtues of strength and freedom. The American flag and campus buildings symbolize the enduring heritage of our nation and Virginia Tech. The chain represents "the strength of many united as one." Each Ring Committee adds unique designs reflecting their respective class experiences.Beginning in the 1990s, each class began naming their collection in honor of an outstanding Virginia Tech personality. During each class' junior year, at the annual Ring Premiere, the collection is unveiled and class members begin ordering their rings. The rings are not delivered until the week of Ring Dance, held in the spring of the class' junior year.A display case in the Williamsburg Room of Squires Student Center contains Virginia Tech class rings since 1921. The display was dedicated during the 1991 and 1986 class reunion in November of 1996. Other rings are on display in the Alumni Museum of the Holtzman Alumni Center.Written by Clara B. Cox (class of 1984), with input from Tom Tillar and Colonel Rock Roszak.Below are links to websites that offer information on the university's history. Many more links can be found on the University Archives and Special Collections websites (both are departments within University Libraries).© 2018 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State UniversityExplore your potential with Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC). Gain valuable skills, a college education, and become a leader in the Army.Army ROTC pays for your tuition while you go to college and train to become an Army Officer. It’s offered at more than 1,000 colleges and universities. Get the college experience and graduate as a highly respected second lieutenant in the Army, Army Reserve, or Army National Guard.

Today, the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation awards fifty scholarships valued up to $10,000 to each selected scholar. The ASF scholarship award is just the beginning for our Astronaut Scholars, and their selection is the beginning of a life-long relationship with astronauts, alumni, and great leaders who span academia, technical research, and corporate leadership.Past Virginia Tech Astronaut Scholars:2017    Arianna Krinos2018    Arianna Krinos2019    Jim Owens2020   Christine FaunceVirginia Tech Contact for the Astronaut Scholarship:
Christina McIntyre (cmcintyre@vt.edu), Director of Professional Development, National & International Scholarship.The English-Speaking Union Scholarship is awarded to one junior per state (in this case, Virginia) for summer study in Great Britain. The English-Speaking Union considers the applicant’s literary and scholastic ability, physical vigor, character and personality. The amount covers the cost of three weeks of summer study and transportation. Campus deadline is in mid-December. The university can nominate one candidate. Finalists are interviewed in Richmond in early February. Contact Christina McIntyre to inquire about application materials. Contact Christina McIntyre to inquire about this year’s application process.2013    Cassidy Grubbs
2011    Josh Trebach
2005    Erica Butler
2001    Kirsten Davis
1997    Janine Schank
1994    Michelle Krusiec
1992    Valerie Alder

http://www.nationalacademies.org/fellowships/fordpredocFord Foundation Fellowships for Minorities include an annual stipend to the student and an institutional allowance in lieu of tuition and fees. Approximately 50 pre-doctoral fellowships are made for research-based doctoral programs in the behavioral and social sciences, humanities, engineering, mathematics, computer science, physical sciences, and biological sciences or interdisciplinary programs consisting of two or more eligible disciplines.  The final deadline is usually in early November.
Fulbright Scholarships are awarded to graduating seniors and graduate students to pursue a research project in their major field at a university in another country (over 70) during a year abroad. The amount includes round-trip transportation, tuition, living expenses, and frequently an accelerated language course. Of particular consideration are language proficiency and careful selection of the site of study for your specific goals. The national deadline is usually the third week in October. Due to the timing and components of the application, and the specifics of the campus process, students are encouraged to contact Betty Watts in early/mid-Spring semester the year before their application to discuss the application process.On-line application available March 31:
http://us.fulbrightonline.org/home.html
Virginia Tech Fulbright Program Advisers: 
Betty Watts | 540-231-7220 | bettyw@vt.edu
526 Prices Fork Rd, Blacksburg VA 24061
2015      Rachael Kennedy - Turkey
              Amanda Nelson - Germany
              Janani Ravi - Germany
              Alexandra Hyler - Denmark 
              Emma Flemmig - India
              Rachel Kirk - Morocco 
2014      Lindsey Rich - Botswana
              Erin Poor - Indonesia
              Kathryn Fielder - Bangladesh
2013      Daniel Youngstrom - Latvia 
2012      Nicole Faut - India
              Lily Gonzales - Spain
2011      Amanada Daquila - Germany
              Holly Berkley - Malaysia
              Emily Van Houweling - Mozambique
2010      Bonnie Fairbanks - Botswana
              Elizabeth Prisley - Germany
2009      Jessica Lu - Israel
2008      Phillip Chong - Korea
2007      John C. Linford - Germany
              Amanda K. Davis- Mexico
              Thomas R. Reppert - Spain
2006      Michael H. Willemann - Germany
2004      Matthew Cahill - Austria
              Timothy Work - Austira
2003      Erik Herz - Germany
              Michael Zalich - Australia
2000      Matthew Chappell - Sweden
1999      Mark Fina - Finland
1997      John Michael Schmidt - United Kingdom
              Sarah Greene - Nicaragua
1995      Daniel Stuver - Netherlands
              Kevin Simon - France
              Dennis Rodgers - France
              Eric Flint - Germany
1994      Daniel Lucero - France
1993      Siri Matthews - France
1989      Joseph Guthrie - New Zealand
http://www.gates.scholarships.cam.ac.ukThe Gates Cambridge Scholarships provide the full cost of studying in Cambridge for one, two, three or in certain exceptional circumstances, four years. The Trust seeks students of exceptional academic achievement and scholarly promise. Students need to demonstrate their ability to make a significant contribution to their discipline.  Students apply directly to Cambridge. Their deadline is usually November 1. 
http://www.act.org/goldwaterGoldwater Scholarships award up to $7,500 per year for tuition, fees, room, board, and books for the junior/senior years to 300 students planning graduate work and a career in science, mathematics, or engineering. The Goldwater Foundation considers scholastic record, research experience, potential in graduate school, and commitment to a research career. The campus deadline is usually before the Thanksgiving break. Contact Christina McIntyre for campus application details.
2012     Winston Becker2011     Casey Baker 2010     Ryan Shaw
             Brittany Gianetti
2009     Ashley Morgenstern2008     Kevin D. Finelli
             Thao P. Do
             David Tatum
2007     Rebecca K. Sinnott2006     Brian J. Skinner2005     David W. Erickson
             Sarah E. Koss
2004     Dustin Hite
             Aaron Kaluszka
2003     Heather C. Shears
             Ashley A. White
2002     Erik Herz
             Nicole Mammerella
2001     Lori D. Hill
             Jerome T. Mettetal
             Danielle F. Overall
             Beth A. Reid
1999     Anna Leung1998     Jennifer L. Craft
             Jean A. Hager
            Monica Kerr
1997    Michael L. Parks
            Leah B. Shaw
1996    Angela Osbourne
            Karen S. Potanka
            John Michael Schmidt
1995    Mark Embree
            Andrew Landahl
1994    Brandon D. Fallon
            William L. Lee
1993    Christopher Chang
            Kristie Seymore
            Mark Zylka

http://www.jamesmadison.comJames Madison Fellowships provide $24,000 to support two years of graduate study that lead to a Master’s degree in history, political science or related social studies. The applicants must agree to teach secondary school for at least one year for each year of financial assistance. The final deadline is usually early March.
http://www.marshallscholarship.org/Marshall Scholarships allot approximately $40,000 per year (tuition, fees, room board, transportation, books) to 40 seniors for two years of graduate study at any university in the United Kingdom. Marshall Scholars have a distinguished academic record, strong leadership, significant community service, and a focused program of study for graduate school. The campus deadline is early September. The national deadline is very early October. Due to the timing and components of the application, and the specifics of the campus process, students are encouraged to contact Christina McIntyre in early/mid-Spring semester of their Junior year to discuss the application process.
2005     Ashley A. White
2000     Sarah S. Airey
1999     Stacey D. Smith
1980     Anya McGuirk

http://www.us-irelandalliance.orgGeorge J. Mitchell Scholarships provide one year of study at any university in Ireland in the student’s chosen field. The Mitchell Scholarship was established to educate future American leaders about the island of Ireland. The campus deadline is early September. The national deadline is early October.
The NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) helps ensure the vitality of the human resource base of science and engineering in the United States and reinforces its diversity. The program recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students in NSF-supported science, technology, engineering, and mathematics disciplines who are pursuing research-based master's and doctoral degrees at accredited United States institutions.
Fellows benefit from a three-year annual stipend of $34,000 along with a $12,000 cost of education allowance for tuition and fees (paid to the institution), opportunities for international research and professional development, and the freedom to conduct their own research at any accredited U.S. institution of graduate education they choose.
NSF Fellows are anticipated to become knowledge experts who can contribute significantly to research, teaching, and innovations in science and engineering. These individuals are crucial to maintaining and advancing the nation's technological infrastructure and national security as well as contributing to the economic well-being of society at large.
University Endorsement Process? No
Deadlines vary by field of study: mid-October to early November. Check the webpage for specific deadline for your application.
Candidates are encouraged to work with a faculty mentor and begin the application in early July or August to allow time to develop the application materials. Candidates are encourage to contact Christina McIntyre for additional guidance. 
 NSF GRF webpage: https://www.nsfgrfp.org/2009     Bradley Shapiro
             Sherri Cook
             John Woods
             Claire VerHulst
             Shiv D. Kale
             Anne-Marie Claire Hodge
             Alek Chalres Duerksen
             Cara Field Buchanan
             Nakiesha Danielle Bridgers
2008     Jonathan G. Ryan
             Ricardo Quintana-Castillo
             Brian Gerber
2007     Kelley C. Stewart
             Ashley R. Robinson
             Sarah A. Orlofske
             Brian D. Lutz
             Cami M. Johnson
             Laura M. Hamm
             Irene M. Berry
             Laura L. Jones
             Thomas R. Reppert
             Sarah M. Huffer
             Brian J. Skinner
             Douglas F. Call
             Rachel C. Wagner2006     Ashley A. White
             Amanda E. Strickhouse
             Carmen Catacora
             Katherine Dulaney
             Dustin Hite
             Aaron S. Kaluszka
             Margaret Kurdziolek
2005     Andrian Harpold
             Matthew E. Lynch
             Zahra Pakdel
             Noelani A. Thompson
             Alica M. Williams
             Jeffrey Young
2004     Beverly Beasley
             Andrew Graham
             Dustin Hite
             Autumn-Lynn Harrison
             Adam Hendricks
             Nicole Mammarella
             Anthony Narkawica
             Christophre Saldana
             Emily Sarver
2003     Jerome T. Mettetal
             David Neal
             Beth Reid
             Eric Ruggerio
             Krista Rule
             Michael Updike
             Michael Zwolak
2002     Anna Marie Davis
             Wesley D. Marner
             Christopher A. Maxey
             Brian D. Sutton
2001     John F. Berry
             Brian T. Gold
             Christopher G. Stoltz
2000     James A. Fogarty
             Jana L. Schwartz
1999     Jennifer Craft
             Marcia Ethridge
             Caitlin Kelleher
             Tanya Mueller
             Sandra Robinson
             Amy Rohrbaugh
             Leah B. Shaw
1998     Ludwig C. Hager
             Nicholas A. Loehr
             Lale G. Lovell
1997     Heidi L. Burch
             Angel O. Duty
             Gretchen M. Ehrenkaufer
             Brooks Moses
             Thomas H. Nutbrown
             Neal Patwari
             Carol A. Steichen
1996     Karl M. Martin
             Julie E. McCormick
             Colin L. Reasoner
1995     Daneil C. Hammerand
             Kristie L. Seymore
1994     Jennifer E. Brooks
             Brian A. Corn
             Matthew C. Elder
             David E. Foster
             Aaron D. Golub
             Diane Livingston
             Bruce B. Lowekamp
             Walter R. O'Connell Jr.
1993     Jennifer M. Deang
             Elizabeth Faye
             Michael C. Montgomery
             Angela L. Wesner
Rhodes Scholarships provide support for tuition, fees, room, board, transportation, books to 32 seniors for two years of graduate study at Oxford University. The Rhodes Foundation looks for seniors with very strong academic records, integrity of character, physical vigor, demonstrated leadership, and extensive public service. Alumni can also apply but must not have reached the age of 24 by October 1 of the application year. Applicants selected to be endorsed by the University will prepare for the national application. For more information about the Rhodes scholarship go to: http://www.rhodesscholar.org. Due to the timing and components of the application, and the specifics of the campus process, students are encouraged to contact Christina McIntyre in early/mid-Spring semester of their Junior year to discuss the application process.1996     Mark Embree
1963     William W. Lewis
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship recognizes college juniors for demonstrated leadership potential and a commitment to public service. The scholarship, in the amount of $30,000, applies towards the scholar’s graduate education. The purpose of the Truman scholarship is to identify people with potential to become leaders and to provide them the support to help them realize their aspirations.University Endorsement Process? Yes. 
To gain access to the application email Christina McIntyre. Include in the email an up-to-date resume or Curriculum Vitae (CV) to assist in the registration process. There are a limited number of nomination spots and a Virginia Tech Truman Committee will interview applicants to determine endorsement of candidates.Virginia Tech campus deadline: December 1
Campus Interviews: Reading Day
Candidates are encouraged to meet early in the fall semester with Christina McIntyre to discuss the application process. The application materials need time to develop and starting early is essential.
Truman Foundation Website: http://www.truman.gov
2009     Jennifer Lamb
2002     Michael Gerusa
1992     Phallisha Newsome-Horton

The Udall Foundation seeks future leaders across a wide spectrum of environmental fields, including policy, engineering, science, education, urban planning and renewal, business, health, justice, and economics. Additionally, the Foundation seeks future Native American and Alaska Native leaders in Native American health care and tribal public policy. In addition to financial funding up to $7,000 for academic expenses, the scholarship provides access to the Udall Alumni network and a four-day scholar orientation in Tucson, AZ.Eligibility
Scholarships are offered to students in one of the following categories: 
University Endorsement Process? Yes. 
To gain access to the application email Christina McIntyre. Include in the email an up-to-date resume or Curriculum Vitae (CV) to assist in the registration process. There are a limited number of nomination spots and a Virginia Tech Udall Committee will determine endorsements of candidates based on the materials submitted by the campus deadline.Virginia Tech campus deadline: February 15
Candidates are encouraged to meet in the fall with Christina McIntyre to discuss the application process. The application materials need time to develop and starting early is essential. 
 Udall Foundation Website: http://udall.gov/OurPrograms/Scholarship/Scholarship.aspx2010     Kara Dodson2007     Erin A. Rooney2006     Sherri M. Cook2004     Hilary Camblos2000     Krista Jacbosen
             Brian Sweet
1999     Shane J. Moses1998     Stacey D. Smith
             Karen Hix
1997     Elizabeth Embree1996     John Michael Schmidt
             Walter R. O'Connel
1993     Jennifer M. Deang
             Elizabeth Faye
             Michael C. Montgomery
             Angel L. Wesner
Our Director of Professional Development, National & International Scholarships Christina McIntyre offers weekly office hours:Get Directions  See All Locations  Contact Virginia Tech  © 2023 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.National scholarships recognize students whose leadership and academic achievements are nationally or internationally extraordinary. The Honors College can advise students through the application process, which can be significant yet developmental. Check with Christina McIntyre for current scholarship meetings, details on the campus process, and campus deadlines.
 Mission of the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation (ASF):

To aid the United States in retaining its world leadership in technology and innovation by supporting the very best and brightest scholars in science, technology, engineering and mathematics while commemorating the legacy of America’s pioneering astronauts.Virginia Tech is proud to be a participating university in the Astronaut Scholarship.A nominee for the Astronaut Scholarship must be a citizen of the United States, either native born or naturalized, and must be at least a sophomore applying for their junior, or a junior applying to receive a scholarship for their senior year. Additionally, nominated students must be enrolled for both semesters as a full-time student for the ASF-supported academic year. Applicants must be seeking a STEM degree with intentions to pursue research or advance their field upon completion of their final degrees. Students intending to pursue a practice in professional medicine are not eligible for the scholarship. However, those intending to perform biomedical research are eligible.Note: Special consideration is NOT given to aeronautical/astronautical engineering students or those intending to pursue careers as astronauts.November    January         February        March           June               Last year ASF awarded 52 scholarships to students from 38 different universities across the nation. Astronaut Scholarships are awarded to students in their junior and senior year of college studying science, technology, engineering, or mathematics with the intent to pursue research or advance their field upon completion of their final degree. Astronaut Scholars are among the best and brightest minds in STEM who show initiative, creativity, and excellence in their chosen field.The Astronaut Scholarship Foundation awarded its first seven scholarships in 1986. Each founding Mercury 7 astronaut sponsored a $1,000 scholarship and they then began to fundraise to support future scholarships. Each astronaut would donate proceeds from their speaking engagements and shared the ASF mission wherever they went to raise awareness of both the mission and the scholarship program.

Today, the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation awards fifty scholarships valued up to $10,000 to each selected scholar. The ASF scholarship award is just the beginning for our Astronaut Scholars, and their selection is the beginning of a life-long relationship with astronauts, alumni, and great leaders who span academia, technical research, and corporate leadership.Past Virginia Tech Astronaut Scholars:2017    Arianna Krinos2018    Arianna Krinos2019    Jim Owens2020   Christine FaunceVirginia Tech Contact for the Astronaut Scholarship:
Christina McIntyre (cmcintyre@vt.edu), Director of Professional Development, National & International Scholarship.The English-Speaking Union Scholarship is awarded to one junior per state (in this case, Virginia) for summer study in Great Britain. The English-Speaking Union considers the applicant’s literary and scholastic ability, physical vigor, character and personality. The amount covers the cost of three weeks of summer study and transportation. Campus deadline is in mid-December. The university can nominate one candidate. Finalists are interviewed in Richmond in early February. Contact Christina McIntyre to inquire about application materials. Contact Christina McIntyre to inquire about this year’s application process.2013    Cassidy Grubbs
2011    Josh Trebach
2005    Erica Butler
2001    Kirsten Davis
1997    Janine Schank
1994    Michelle Krusiec
1992    Valerie Alder

http://www.nationalacademies.org/fellowships/fordpredocFord Foundation Fellowships for Minorities include an annual stipend to the student and an institutional allowance in lieu of tuition and fees. Approximately 50 pre-doctoral fellowships are made for research-based doctoral programs in the behavioral and social sciences, humanities, engineering, mathematics, computer science, physical sciences, and biological sciences or interdisciplinary programs consisting of two or more eligible disciplines.  The final deadline is usually in early November.
Fulbright Scholarships are awarded to graduating seniors and graduate students to pursue a research project in their major field at a university in another country (over 70) during a year abroad. The amount includes round-trip transportation, tuition, living expenses, and frequently an accelerated language course. Of particular consideration are language proficiency and careful selection of the site of study for your specific goals. The national deadline is usually the third week in October. Due to the timing and components of the application, and the specifics of the campus process, students are encouraged to contact Betty Watts in early/mid-Spring semester the year before their application to discuss the application process.On-line application available March 31:
http://us.fulbrightonline.org/home.html
Virginia Tech Fulbright Program Advisers: 
Betty Watts | 540-231-7220 | bettyw@vt.edu
526 Prices Fork Rd, Blacksburg VA 24061
2015      Rachael Kennedy - Turkey
              Amanda Nelson - Germany
              Janani Ravi - Germany
              Alexandra Hyler - Denmark 
              Emma Flemmig - India
              Rachel Kirk - Morocco 
2014      Lindsey Rich - Botswana
              Erin Poor - Indonesia
              Kathryn Fielder - Bangladesh
2013      Daniel Youngstrom - Latvia 
2012      Nicole Faut - India
              Lily Gonzales - Spain
2011      Amanada Daquila - Germany
              Holly Berkley - Malaysia
              Emily Van Houweling - Mozambique
2010      Bonnie Fairbanks - Botswana
              Elizabeth Prisley - Germany
2009      Jessica Lu - Israel
2008      Phillip Chong - Korea
2007      John C. Linford - Germany
              Amanda K. Davis- Mexico
              Thomas R. Reppert - Spain
2006      Michael H. Willemann - Germany
2004      Matthew Cahill - Austria
              Timothy Work - Austira
2003      Erik Herz - Germany
              Michael Zalich - Australia
2000      Matthew Chappell - Sweden
1999      Mark Fina - Finland
1997      John Michael Schmidt - United Kingdom
              Sarah Greene - Nicaragua
1995      Daniel Stuver - Netherlands
              Kevin Simon - France
              Dennis Rodgers - France
              Eric Flint - Germany
1994      Daniel Lucero - France
1993      Siri Matthews - France
1989      Joseph Guthrie - New Zealand
http://www.gates.scholarships.cam.ac.ukThe Gates Cambridge Scholarships provide the full cost of studying in Cambridge for one, two, three or in certain exceptional circumstances, four years. The Trust seeks students of exceptional academic achievement and scholarly promise. Students need to demonstrate their ability to make a significant contribution to their discipline.  Students apply directly to Cambridge. Their deadline is usually November 1. 
http://www.act.org/goldwaterGoldwater Scholarships award up to $7,500 per year for tuition, fees, room, board, and books for the junior/senior years to 300 students planning graduate work and a career in science, mathematics, or engineering. The Goldwater Foundation considers scholastic record, research experience, potential in graduate school, and commitment to a research career. The campus deadline is usually before the Thanksgiving break. Contact Christina McIntyre for campus application details.
2012     Winston Becker2011     Casey Baker 2010     Ryan Shaw
             Brittany Gianetti
2009     Ashley Morgenstern2008     Kevin D. Finelli
             Thao P. Do
             David Tatum
2007     Rebecca K. Sinnott2006     Brian J. Skinner2005     David W. Erickson
             Sarah E. Koss
2004     Dustin Hite
             Aaron Kaluszka
2003     Heather C. Shears
             Ashley A. White
2002     Erik Herz
             Nicole Mammerella
2001     Lori D. Hill
             Jerome T. Mettetal
             Danielle F. Overall
             Beth A. Reid
1999     Anna Leung1998     Jennifer L. Craft
             Jean A. Hager
            Monica Kerr
1997    Michael L. Parks
            Leah B. Shaw
1996    Angela Osbourne
            Karen S. Potanka
            John Michael Schmidt
1995    Mark Embree
            Andrew Landahl
1994    Brandon D. Fallon
            William L. Lee
1993    Christopher Chang
            Kristie Seymore
            Mark Zylka

http://www.jamesmadison.comJames Madison Fellowships provide $24,000 to support two years of graduate study that lead to a Master’s degree in history, political science or related social studies. The applicants must agree to teach secondary school for at least one year for each year of financial assistance. The final deadline is usually early March.
http://www.marshallscholarship.org/Marshall Scholarships allot approximately $40,000 per year (tuition, fees, room board, transportation, books) to 40 seniors for two years of graduate study at any university in the United Kingdom. Marshall Scholars have a distinguished academic record, strong leadership, significant community service, and a focused program of study for graduate school. The campus deadline is early September. The national deadline is very early October. Due to the timing and components of the application, and the specifics of the campus process, students are encouraged to contact Christina McIntyre in early/mid-Spring semester of their Junior year to discuss the application process.
2005     Ashley A. White
2000     Sarah S. Airey
1999     Stacey D. Smith
1980     Anya McGuirk

http://www.us-irelandalliance.orgGeorge J. Mitchell Scholarships provide one year of study at any university in Ireland in the student’s chosen field. The Mitchell Scholarship was established to educate future American leaders about the island of Ireland. The campus deadline is early September. The national deadline is early October.
The NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) helps ensure the vitality of the human resource base of science and engineering in the United States and reinforces its diversity. The program recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students in NSF-supported science, technology, engineering, and mathematics disciplines who are pursuing research-based master's and doctoral degrees at accredited United States institutions.
Fellows benefit from a three-year annual stipend of $34,000 along with a $12,000 cost of education allowance for tuition and fees (paid to the institution), opportunities for international research and professional development, and the freedom to conduct their own research at any accredited U.S. institution of graduate education they choose.
NSF Fellows are anticipated to become knowledge experts who can contribute significantly to research, teaching, and innovations in science and engineering. These individuals are crucial to maintaining and advancing the nation's technological infrastructure and national security as well as contributing to the economic well-being of society at large.
University Endorsement Process? No
Deadlines vary by field of study: mid-October to early November. Check the webpage for specific deadline for your application.
Candidates are encouraged to work with a faculty mentor and begin the application in early July or August to allow time to develop the application materials. Candidates are encourage to contact Christina McIntyre for additional guidance. 
 NSF GRF webpage: https://www.nsfgrfp.org/2009     Bradley Shapiro
             Sherri Cook
             John Woods
             Claire VerHulst
             Shiv D. Kale
             Anne-Marie Claire Hodge
             Alek Chalres Duerksen
             Cara Field Buchanan
             Nakiesha Danielle Bridgers
2008     Jonathan G. Ryan
             Ricardo Quintana-Castillo
             Brian Gerber
2007     Kelley C. Stewart
             Ashley R. Robinson
             Sarah A. Orlofske
             Brian D. Lutz
             Cami M. Johnson
             Laura M. Hamm
             Irene M. Berry
             Laura L. Jones
             Thomas R. Reppert
             Sarah M. Huffer
             Brian J. Skinner
             Douglas F. Call
             Rachel C. Wagner2006     Ashley A. White
             Amanda E. Strickhouse
             Carmen Catacora
             Katherine Dulaney
             Dustin Hite
             Aaron S. Kaluszka
             Margaret Kurdziolek
2005     Andrian Harpold
             Matthew E. Lynch
             Zahra Pakdel
             Noelani A. Thompson
             Alica M. Williams
             Jeffrey Young
2004     Beverly Beasley
             Andrew Graham
             Dustin Hite
             Autumn-Lynn Harrison
             Adam Hendricks
             Nicole Mammarella
             Anthony Narkawica
             Christophre Saldana
             Emily Sarver
2003     Jerome T. Mettetal
             David Neal
             Beth Reid
             Eric Ruggerio
             Krista Rule
             Michael Updike
             Michael Zwolak
2002     Anna Marie Davis
             Wesley D. Marner
             Christopher A. Maxey
             Brian D. Sutton
2001     John F. Berry
             Brian T. Gold
             Christopher G. Stoltz
2000     James A. Fogarty
             Jana L. Schwartz
1999     Jennifer Craft
             Marcia Ethridge
             Caitlin Kelleher
             Tanya Mueller
             Sandra Robinson
             Amy Rohrbaugh
             Leah B. Shaw
1998     Ludwig C. Hager
             Nicholas A. Loehr
             Lale G. Lovell
1997     Heidi L. Burch
             Angel O. Duty
             Gretchen M. Ehrenkaufer
             Brooks Moses
             Thomas H. Nutbrown
             Neal Patwari
             Carol A. Steichen
1996     Karl M. Martin
             Julie E. McCormick
             Colin L. Reasoner
1995     Daneil C. Hammerand
             Kristie L. Seymore
1994     Jennifer E. Brooks
             Brian A. Corn
             Matthew C. Elder
             David E. Foster
             Aaron D. Golub
             Diane Livingston
             Bruce B. Lowekamp
             Walter R. O'Connell Jr.
1993     Jennifer M. Deang
             Elizabeth Faye
             Michael C. Montgomery
             Angela L. Wesner

Rhodes Scholarships provide support for tuition, fees, room, board, transportation, books to 32 seniors for two years of graduate study at Oxford University. The Rhodes Foundation looks for seniors with very strong academic records, integrity of character, physical vigor, demonstrated leadership, and extensive public service. Alumni can also apply but must not have reached the age of 24 by October 1 of the application year. Applicants selected to be endorsed by the University will prepare for the national application. For more information about the Rhodes scholarship go to: http://www.rhodesscholar.org. Due to the timing and components of the application, and the specifics of the campus process, students are encouraged to contact Christina McIntyre in early/mid-Spring semester of their Junior year to discuss the application process.1996     Mark Embree
1963     William W. Lewis

The Harry S. Truman Scholarship recognizes college juniors for demonstrated leadership potential and a commitment to public service. The scholarship, in the amount of $30,000, applies towards the scholar’s graduate education. The purpose of the Truman scholarship is to identify people with potential to become leaders and to provide them the support to help them realize their aspirations.University Endorsement Process? Yes. 
To gain access to the application email Christina McIntyre. Include in the email an up-to-date resume or Curriculum Vitae (CV) to assist in the registration process. There are a limited number of nomination spots and a Virginia Tech Truman Committee will interview applicants to determine endorsement of candidates.Virginia Tech campus deadline: December 1
Campus Interviews: Reading Day
Candidates are encouraged to meet early in the fall semester with Christina McIntyre to discuss the application process. The application materials need time to develop and starting early is essential.
Truman Foundation Website: http://www.truman.gov
2009     Jennifer Lamb
2002     Michael Gerusa
1992     Phallisha Newsome-Horton

The Udall Foundation seeks future leaders across a wide spectrum of environmental fields, including policy, engineering, science, education, urban planning and renewal, business, health, justice, and economics. Additionally, the Foundation seeks future Native American and Alaska Native leaders in Native American health care and tribal public policy. In addition to financial funding up to $7,000 for academic expenses, the scholarship provides access to the Udall Alumni network and a four-day scholar orientation in Tucson, AZ.Eligibility
Scholarships are offered to students in one of the following categories: 
University Endorsement Process? Yes. 
To gain access to the application email Christina McIntyre. Include in the email an up-to-date resume or Curriculum Vitae (CV) to assist in the registration process. There are a limited number of nomination spots and a Virginia Tech Udall Committee will determine endorsements of candidates based on the materials submitted by the campus deadline.Virginia Tech campus deadline: February 15
Candidates are encouraged to meet in the fall with Christina McIntyre to discuss the application process. The application materials need time to develop and starting early is essential. 
 Udall Foundation Website: http://udall.gov/OurPrograms/Scholarship/Scholarship.aspx2010     Kara Dodson2007     Erin A. Rooney2006     Sherri M. Cook2004     Hilary Camblos2000     Krista Jacbosen
             Brian Sweet
1999     Shane J. Moses1998     Stacey D. Smith
             Karen Hix
1997     Elizabeth Embree1996     John Michael Schmidt
             Walter R. O'Connel
1993     Jennifer M. Deang
             Elizabeth Faye
             Michael C. Montgomery
             Angel L. Wesner

United StatesExplore opportunities for U.S. citizens to go abroad with the Fulbright Scholar Program. With more than 800 awards annually to 135+ countries, find the right Fulbright for you.Each year roughly 850 faculty and professionals from around the world receive Fulbright Scholar awards for advanced research and university lecturing in the United States. Individual awards are available to scholars from over 100 countries.U.S. Higher Education institutions are instrumental to the success of the Fulbright mission. They are key allies in advancing the goal of sharing knowledge across communities, promoting mutual understanding across nations and improving lives around the world.Learn how alumni can continue to stay connected and engage with the Fulbright program.Visit the Fulbright Scholar Directory to view the opportunities pursued by more than 50,000 alumni.This is a program of the U.S. Department of State with funding provided by the U.S. Government, administered by IIE.Virginia Tech UniversityExplore opportunities for U.S. citizens to go abroad with the Fulbright Scholar Program. With more than 800 awards annually to 135+ countries, find the right Fulbright for you.Each year roughly 850 faculty and professionals from around the world receive Fulbright Scholar awards for advanced research and university lecturing in the United States. Individual awards are available to scholars from over 100 countries.U.S. Higher Education institutions are instrumental to the success of the Fulbright mission. They are key allies in advancing the goal of sharing knowledge across communities, promoting mutual understanding across nations and improving lives around the world.Learn how alumni can continue to stay connected and engage with the Fulbright program.Visit the Fulbright Scholar Directory to view the opportunities pursued by more than 50,000 alumni.Explore opportunities for U.S. citizens to go abroad with the Fulbright Scholar Program. With more than 800 awards annually to 135+ countries, find the right Fulbright for you.Each year roughly 850 faculty and professionals from around the world receive Fulbright Scholar awards for advanced research and university lecturing in the United States. Individual awards are available to scholars from over 100 countries.U.S. Higher Education institutions are instrumental to the success of the Fulbright mission. They are key allies in advancing the goal of sharing knowledge across communities, promoting mutual understanding across nations and improving lives around the world.Learn how alumni can continue to stay connected and engage with the Fulbright program.Visit the Fulbright Scholar Directory to view the opportunities pursued by more than 50,000 alumni.This is a program of the U.S. Department of State with funding provided by the U.S. Government, administered by IIE.Of the millions of men and women who have served in the U.S. armed forces throughout history, only about 3,400 have received the Medal of Honor, America's highest award for valor. Among those few are eight Virginia Tech alumni. The number is particularly significant considering that a little more than half of the nation's medals were awarded during the Civil War, before Virginia Tech's founding. The eight names are etched in a marble cenotaph, a symbolic tomb, at the center the court above War Memorial ChapelAntoine Gaujot, Class of 1900, and Julien Gaujot, Class of 1893, are two of the few brothers to earn the Medal of Honor and the only pair to receive the medal for actions in different wars.Antoine Gaujot received the medal for actions as an Army corporal at the Battle of San Mateo in 1899 during the Philippine Insurrection. He made persistent effort under heavy enemy rifle fire to locate a ford to help his unit cross the swollen river to attack. Unable to accomplish this, he swam with a companion again under fire and against a dangerous current across the river to the enemy side. There he secured an enemy canoe and returned it to the friendly side of the river.Julien Gaujot, an Army captain, received the medal for actions on the Mexican Border in 1911. He is the only soldier awarded the medal for peacekeeping actions. In Douglas, Ariz., stray bullets from fighting among Mexican rebels and government troops caused American casualties. Gaujot crossed the border and moved between the two groups of belligerents for an hour under heavy fire. This secured the safe passage of the Mexican soldiers and American prisoners over the border to the United States. His actions saved five Americans taken prisoner by the Mexicans, 25 Mexican soldiers, plus Americans and Mexican rebels who would have died in continued fighting.Earle Gregory, Class of 1923, received the Medal of Honor for actions as an Army sergeant during the Meuse Argonne Offensive along the Western Front in World War I. He is considered the first Virginia veteran from World War I to receive the medal and often was called the “Sergeant York of Virginia.” Armed with a rifle and a mortar shell used as a hand grenade, Gregory single-handedly captured a machine gun and three enemy soldiers. Continuing his advance he captured a howitzer and 19 enemy soldiers.Herbert Thomas, Class of 1941, received the Medal of Honor for action on Bougainville Island in the South Pacific in World War II while a Marine Corps sergeant. Through dense jungle and severe machine gun fire, Thomas led his men in destroying two enemy machine gun positions. Halted by a third enemy machine gun, he positioned his men to rush the enemy after he threw a hand grenade. He threw the grenade only to have the jungle vines drop it back among his men. Seeing the danger to his men, he jumped on the grenade, saving their lives with the sacrifice of his own. Thomas Hall is named in his honor.Jimmie Waters Monteith Jr.Jimmie Monteith, Class of 1941, received the Medal of Honor for actions as an Army lieutenant at D-Day during World War II. Without regard for his own safety, he led the assault over exposed beach to the cover a narrow ledge. Leaving cover, he moved toward two tanks. Exposed to intense artillery and machine gun fire, he led them through a minefield and directed the tank fire, destroying several enemy positions. He then returned to his men and led them in the capture of an advantageous position. Against vicious enemy counterattacks he repetitively crossed open terrain under heavy fire to strengthen his unit's defense until he was killed. Monteith Hall was named in his honor.Robert Femoyer, Class of 1944, enlisted in the Army Air Force during World War II and is the only navigator awarded the Medal of Honor. On a bombing mission over Germany, he was wounded by enemy aircraft fire, which seriously damaged his B-17 bomber. Despite extreme pain and great loss of blood, he refused morphine to keep his mental faculties clear. For 2½ hours he guided the lone bomber through six changes in course around enemy anti-aircraft concentrations. As the crippled aircraft crossed safely over the English Channel, Femoyer finally allowed an injection of morphine. Thirty minutes after landing he died of wounds. Femoyer Hall is named in his honor.Richard Shea, Class of 1948, received the Medal of Honor for actions as an Army first lieutenant at Pork Chop Hill during the Korean War. Fighting outnumbered, he voluntarily proceeded to the area most threatened to organize and lead a counterattack. During the bitter fighting, he killed two enemy soldiers with his trench knife. In more than 18 hours of heavy fighting, he moved among the defenders of Pork Chop Hill to ensure a successful defense. Leading a counterattack, he killed three enemy soldiers single-handedly. Although wounded, he refused evacuation. He was last seen fighting hand-to-hand during yet another counterattack.

A unit commander in the U.S. Army, 1st Lt. Gary Lee Miller, Class of 1969, died from wounds he received while serving with the 1st Battalion, 28th Infantry Regiment, 1st Infantry Division, in action in Binh Duong Province, Vietnam.Miller was serving as a platoon leader at night when his company ambushed a hostile force infiltrating from Cambodian sanctuaries. After contact was broken, Miller led a reconnaissance patrol to search the area for enemy casualties. As the group advanced, it was attacked and Miller seriously wounded. During the fight, an enemy grenade was thrown into the midst of Miller's group. Miller threw himself on it, absorbing the force of the explosion with his body. His action saved nearby members of his patrol.A resident of Covington, Virginia, Miller attended Clifton Forge-Covington Community College during a period when it was designated a branch of Virginia Tech.Get Directions  See All Locations  Contact Virginia Tech  © 2023 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.Of the millions of men and women who have served in the U.S. armed forces throughout history, only about 3,400 have received the Medal of Honor, America's highest award for valor. Among those few are eight Virginia Tech alumni. The number is particularly significant considering that a little more than half of the nation's medals were awarded during the Civil War, before Virginia Tech's founding. The eight names are etched in a marble cenotaph, a symbolic tomb, at the center the court above War Memorial ChapelAntoine Gaujot, Class of 1900, and Julien Gaujot, Class of 1893, are two of the few brothers to earn the Medal of Honor and the only pair to receive the medal for actions in different wars.Antoine Gaujot received the medal for actions as an Army corporal at the Battle of San Mateo in 1899 during the Philippine Insurrection. He made persistent effort under heavy enemy rifle fire to locate a ford to help his unit cross the swollen river to attack. Unable to accomplish this, he swam with a companion again under fire and against a dangerous current across the river to the enemy side. There he secured an enemy canoe and returned it to the friendly side of the river.Julien Gaujot, an Army captain, received the medal for actions on the Mexican Border in 1911. He is the only soldier awarded the medal for peacekeeping actions. In Douglas, Ariz., stray bullets from fighting among Mexican rebels and government troops caused American casualties. Gaujot crossed the border and moved between the two groups of belligerents for an hour under heavy fire. This secured the safe passage of the Mexican soldiers and American prisoners over the border to the United States. His actions saved five Americans taken prisoner by the Mexicans, 25 Mexican soldiers, plus Americans and Mexican rebels who would have died in continued fighting.Earle Gregory, Class of 1923, received the Medal of Honor for actions as an Army sergeant during the Meuse Argonne Offensive along the Western Front in World War I. He is considered the first Virginia veteran from World War I to receive the medal and often was called the “Sergeant York of Virginia.” Armed with a rifle and a mortar shell used as a hand grenade, Gregory single-handedly captured a machine gun and three enemy soldiers. Continuing his advance he captured a howitzer and 19 enemy soldiers.Herbert Thomas, Class of 1941, received the Medal of Honor for action on Bougainville Island in the South Pacific in World War II while a Marine Corps sergeant. Through dense jungle and severe machine gun fire, Thomas led his men in destroying two enemy machine gun positions. Halted by a third enemy machine gun, he positioned his men to rush the enemy after he threw a hand grenade. He threw the grenade only to have the jungle vines drop it back among his men. Seeing the danger to his men, he jumped on the grenade, saving their lives with the sacrifice of his own. Thomas Hall is named in his honor.Jimmie Waters Monteith Jr.Jimmie Monteith, Class of 1941, received the Medal of Honor for actions as an Army lieutenant at D-Day during World War II. Without regard for his own safety, he led the assault over exposed beach to the cover a narrow ledge. Leaving cover, he moved toward two tanks. Exposed to intense artillery and machine gun fire, he led them through a minefield and directed the tank fire, destroying several enemy positions. He then returned to his men and led them in the capture of an advantageous position. Against vicious enemy counterattacks he repetitively crossed open terrain under heavy fire to strengthen his unit's defense until he was killed. Monteith Hall was named in his honor.Robert Femoyer, Class of 1944, enlisted in the Army Air Force during World War II and is the only navigator awarded the Medal of Honor. On a bombing mission over Germany, he was wounded by enemy aircraft fire, which seriously damaged his B-17 bomber. Despite extreme pain and great loss of blood, he refused morphine to keep his mental faculties clear. For 2½ hours he guided the lone bomber through six changes in course around enemy anti-aircraft concentrations. As the crippled aircraft crossed safely over the English Channel, Femoyer finally allowed an injection of morphine. Thirty minutes after landing he died of wounds. Femoyer Hall is named in his honor.Richard Shea, Class of 1948, received the Medal of Honor for actions as an Army first lieutenant at Pork Chop Hill during the Korean War. Fighting outnumbered, he voluntarily proceeded to the area most threatened to organize and lead a counterattack. During the bitter fighting, he killed two enemy soldiers with his trench knife. In more than 18 hours of heavy fighting, he moved among the defenders of Pork Chop Hill to ensure a successful defense. Leading a counterattack, he killed three enemy soldiers single-handedly. Although wounded, he refused evacuation. He was last seen fighting hand-to-hand during yet another counterattack.A unit commander in the U.S. Army, 1st Lt. Gary Lee Miller, Class of 1969, died from wounds he received while serving with the 1st Battalion, 28th Infantry Regiment, 1st Infantry Division, in action in Binh Duong Province, Vietnam.Miller was serving as a platoon leader at night when his company ambushed a hostile force infiltrating from Cambodian sanctuaries. After contact was broken, Miller led a reconnaissance patrol to search the area for enemy casualties. As the group advanced, it was attacked and Miller seriously wounded. During the fight, an enemy grenade was thrown into the midst of Miller's group. Miller threw himself on it, absorbing the force of the explosion with his body. His action saved nearby members of his patrol.A resident of Covington, Virginia, Miller attended Clifton Forge-Covington Community College during a period when it was designated a branch of Virginia Tech.Get Directions  See All Locations  Contact Virginia Tech  © 2021 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.Advanced Search (Items only)Virginia Tech, with over a 146-year military tradition, has 97 generals and admirals among its alumni. These include 3 four star Generals, 11 Lieutenant Generals, 33 Major Generals, 42 Brigadier Generals, and 8 Rear Admirals. Forty-four have been from the Army, 34 from the Air Force, 6 from the Navy, 2 from the Coast Guard, and 1 from the Marine Corps, 9 from the National Guard, and 1 from the Militia. With the addition of Navy/Marine ROTC in 1983 at Virginia Tech, the naval service expects a greater representation over the next 125 years. The class with the greatest number of generals is the class of 1941. This list was compiled by LTC John A. Coulter '76 and Tamara Kennelly in 1993. Updates have been made several times between 1993 and 2020.  Advanced Search (Items only)Virginia Tech, with over a 146-year military tradition, has 97 generals and admirals among its alumni. These include 3 four star Generals, 11 Lieutenant Generals, 33 Major Generals, 42 Brigadier Generals, and 8 Rear Admirals. Forty-four have been from the Army, 34 from the Air Force, 6 from the Navy, 2 from the Coast Guard, and 1 from the Marine Corps, 9 from the National Guard, and 1 from the Militia. With the addition of Navy/Marine ROTC in 1983 at Virginia Tech, the naval service expects a greater representation over the next 125 years. The class with the greatest number of generals is the class of 1941. This list was compiled by LTC John A. Coulter '76 and Tamara Kennelly in 1993. Updates have been made several times between 1993 and 2020.  23 Sep 2015Matthew M. Winston Jr., assistant to the president at the University of Georgia, has been named senior associate vice president for alumni relations at Virginia Tech.Winston will succeed Tom Tillar, who announced earlier this year that he would step down from his position after 40 years of serving Virginia Tech alumni. Winston will start his new position on Nov. 1.“I am delighted Matt has stepped forward to lead our alumni relations program,” said Charlie Phlegar, vice president for advancement, in making the announcement. “Not only does Matt have an impressive and distinguished record of accomplishment at the University of Georgia, but he has remained highly engaged with Virginia Tech, providing dynamic leadership for our alumni association and the Pamplin College of Business. His passion for and commitment to Virginia Tech will expand and deepen alumni engagement. He will be an essential person in our integrated advancement model.”The Virginia Tech Alumni Association encompasses more than 240,000 living alumni throughout the United States and around the world.“Virginia Tech alumni are passionate about our university,” said Winston. “And as President Sands and other university leaders seek to refine and expand Virginia Tech’s role in higher education, our alumni must be more involved in what we are doing now and into the future. Thanks to the work of Tom Tillar and the current alumni relations team, our alumni have told us they want to contribute to the university's future success.  I look forward to creating new avenues for alumni to deepen and strengthen their connection to our beloved alma mater.”As assistant to the president at Georgia since 2000, Winston has provided counsel to university leadership in many critical areas, including community and alumni relations, intercollegiate athletics, student life, institutional diversity, institutional advancement and campus safety issues. He has worked closely with student groups and organizations, faculty-led programs and university governance, as well as alumni and community organizations.Since 2013, Winston has been the president of the Virginia Tech Alumni Association board of directors. A board member since 2007, Winston has also served as the chair of the Alumni Services and Communications Committee, the Nominations and Awards Committee, and served as vice president.In addition, he has served as president of Virginia Tech’s Athens, Georgia, area alumni chapter since 2008, and is a member of the Virginia Tech Real Estate Foundation Board of Directors and the Pamplin College of Business Advisory Council. He was a member of the Virginia Tech Black Cultural Center advisory board from 2003 to 2006. He is an active member of the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), having served on its International Board of Trustees from 2010 to 2013 and its Commission on Communications and Marketing from 2009 to 2011.Winston has been at the University of Georgia since 1998, serving initially as the news bureau manager for two years. From 2005 to 2006, he was the acting director of Georgia’s Office of Institutional Diversity.He began his professional career in 1991 as a member of Virginia Tech’s University Relations office. He received his bachelor’s degree in marketing management from the university’s Pamplin College of Business in 1990.A native of Virginia Beach, Winston is a second-generation alumnus of Virginia Tech. His father, Matthew Winston Sr., received his bachelor's degree in aerospace engineering in 1959 and is one of the university's early black graduates.Dedicated to its motto, Ut Prosim (That I May Serve), Virginia Tech takes a hands-on, engaging approach to education, preparing scholars to be leaders in their fields and communities. As the commonwealth’s most comprehensive university and its leading research institution, Virginia Tech offers 240 undergraduate and graduate degree programs to more than 31,000 students and manages a research portfolio of $513 million. The university fulfills its land-grant mission of transforming knowledge to practice through technological leadership and by fueling economic growth and job creation locally, regionally, and across Virginia.

Virginia Tech demonstrates impact as a global land grant – progressing sustainability in our community, through the Commonwealth of Virginia, and around the world.Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech For the media © 2023 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.Solitude is the oldest structure still standing on campus. The frame house was restored in 2011 to its mid-to-late 19th century appearance. It is now home to a multi-use Appalachian Center.Believed to date back more than 200 years and the oldest structure on campus, Solitude is an example of Greek Revival architecture. The house was expanded in 1851 by Col. Robert Preston, who received the estate from his father, Virginia Governor James P. Preston. About 250 acres, the house, and several farm buildings on the estate were purchased by the Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College (now Virginia Tech) Board of Visitors in 1872 for $21,250. Over the years, Solitude has housed a plethora of functions. In the 1990s, it was closed until funds could be raised for major renovations. Solitude is on the Virginia Landmarks Register and the National Register of Historic Places.Get Directions  See All Locations  Contact Virginia Tech  © 2023 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.
Virginia Tech / About / Virginia Tech Buildings 705 West Campus DriveSolitude is the oldest structure still standing on campus. The frame house was restored in 2011 to its mid-to-late 19th century appearance. It is now home to a multi-use Appalachian Center.Believed to date back more than 200 years and the oldest structure on campus, Solitude is an example of Greek Revival architecture. The house was expanded in 1851 by Col. Robert Preston, who received the estate from his father, Virginia Governor James P. Preston. About 250 acres, the house, and several farm buildings on the estate were purchased by the Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College (now Virginia Tech) Board of Visitors in 1872 for $21,250. Over the years, Solitude has housed a plethora of functions. In the 1990s, it was closed until funds could be raised for major renovations. Solitude is on the Virginia Landmarks Register and the National Register of Historic Places.Map Grid: J-6Building Number: 275Originally Built: 1840Abbreviation: SOLLatitude: 37.22622Longitude: -80.42689Related Sites© 2016 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State UniversityIt looks like nothing was found at this location.2801 Kensington Avenue, Richmond, VA 23221(804) 482-6446Monday – Friday 8 am – 5 pmQuick LinksPrograms    DHR has secured permanent legal protection for over 700 historic places - including 15,000 acres of battlefield landsDHR has erected 2,532 highway markers in every county and city across VirginiaDHR has registered more than 3,317 individual resources and 613 historic districtsLearn MoreDHR has engaged over 450 students in 3 highway marker contestsDHR has stimulated more than $4.2 billion dollars in private investments related to historic tax credit incentives, revitalizing communities of all sizes throughout VirginiaVirginia foiaDHR Code of EthicsAgency Staff DirectoryInternet Privacy Policy StatementCardinalCopyright © 2023. All Rights Reserved | Website by CUREThe disposition of the money derived from the Morrill Land Grant Act passed by Congress in 1862 led to the founding of
Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College.  The location of the college at Blacksburg was the result of several years of
legislative debate, dubbed the 'War of the Colleges' by the press.
Claims for the money were made by some twenty-four different schools in the state.  Many different proposals were also made
as to the disposition of the fund.  One proposal was that the money be given to a new school or to one that would give up its
charter and become the Agricultural and Mechanical College.  Another proposal was to divide the money between whites and
blacks and establish a new school for blacks.
At the time, the Preston and Olin Institute at Blacksburg was in financial difficulty and its trustees decided to ask the
legislature for the fund.  It did so by means of a letter to Senator John E. Penn who represented the Blacksburg District.
Penn was willing to support the request, and apparently at his suggestion the trustees of the Preston and Olin Institute
promised to permit the reorganization of the school into an agricultural and mechanical college in return for the land-grant
money.  At the same time the people of Montgomery County pledge $20,000 to the new school if established.
In the State Senate, Penn secured the whole hearted support of Gabriel C. Wharton in the House of Delegates, and these two
after a long and often bitter and acrimonious struggle succeeded in getting a bill passed which provided that one third of the
land-grant fund be donated to the Hampton Normal and Industrial Institute for the blacks, and two thirds to be donated to the
Preston and Olin Institute, if the latter institute relinquished its charter, donated its property to the state and reorganized as the Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College.  Governor Walker signed the bill on March 19, 1872.
The Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College was thereby born.
Dates
1851: Preston & Olin Institute founded
1860-1865: Civil War
1862: Morrill Land Grant Act passed by Congress
1870: Virginia readmitted to the Union
1872: Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College founded
KinnearIndex
HistoricalVirginia Tech
Launching theCollege

His trek over mountains and through valleys on that particular autumn
day, however, ended in the Preston and Olin Building, where 16-year-old
"Add" became the first student to register at the Virginia Agricultural
and Mechanical College (V.A.M.C.), the commonwealth's new land-grant
institution that eventually became Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University.

Born on January 10, 1856--probably in his parents' home--at Sinking
Creek in Craig County, Va., Add Caldwell was the second of George
Charlton and Lorena Givens Caldwell's nine children.  Generation after
generation of Caldwells had lived in Craig's valleys since the 1760's,
when King George III of England granted land to their forebear, John
Caldwell.  The land, rolling hills bordered by mountains, was once part
of Botetourt County, but that section of Botetourt and sections of
Roanoke, Giles, and Monroe counties, were joined in 1851 to create the
new county of Craig.

Add's father--like his grandfather, Archibald Caldwell--was a farmer who
owned many acres of land.  George's large, two-story frame house, where
his children probably were born, still sits above the base of a
mountain, providing a panoramic view of the valley farmland that he
owned.

Growing up on a farm, Add surely had chores assigned to him, and his
father, a veteran of the Civil War who had owned a slave around 1860,
would also have encouraged or made arrangements for his schooling. 
According to an article written by J.C. Martin for the New Castle Record
and reprinted in the book Bits and Pieces of Craig County Schools, "The
Confederate [soldier] who had been deprived by the war of such
educational advantages as his time afforded was very anxious that his
children . . . might have a better opportunity than he had."  The method
of educating young Add and his school-age siblings, however, can only be
surmised since the county's school records were destroyed by fire.  But
Craig County historian Jane Johnston says he most likely attended a one-
or two-room school since several existed near the family farm.  Or, she
adds, he may have been taught by an instructor hired to come into the
home, another method of education popular in the county among more
prosperous residents.  His last year or two as a Craig County student
may have been spent in a public school since that system of education
was introduced in 1870.

What prompted Add Caldwell to investigate the agricultural and
mechanical school in Blacksburg may never be known.  Whether he saw one
of many advertisements the school's president, Charles L.C. Minor,
placed in newspapers throughout the state or learned of the new school
through word of mouth, Add and his older brother, 18-year-old Milton M.
"Mic" Caldwell, left their home in Sinking Creek community and walked as
much as 28 miles to Blacksburg.  Johnston says the boys would have known
about foot trails across the mountains, which could have shortened their
walk considerably.  Mic's daughter, Katherine Caldwell Mendez, now 90
years old, remembers her father telling her that he walked to the school
with his brother.

Virginia Tech historian D.L. Kinnear, in his book The First 100 Years,
describes what happened that day in the Preston and Olin Building:
While Add has been targeted as the first student to register, Mic also
registered, probably the same day.  Other students trickled in,
prompting President Minor to write during that first month to Gen.
Joseph R. Anderson, a member of the school's Board of Visitors: "We have
now thirty students matriculated, and there are, I think a dozen more,
of the vicinity, holding back in hope of some abatement of accommodation
in the way of delay such as they have been used to received [sic] from
the Preston and Olin Institute.  We are in correspondence with a good
many others, but [it is] plain that our beginning is to be smaller than
had been expected by most of those who were best informed in the
matter."

Calling the students "plain lads for the most part," President Minor
noted in the letter that he was "embarrassed by the fact that the wants
of the students who have come to us have forced us to vary materially
from the strictly technical training enjoined by the organization
Committee's report."  Later, in his report on the college to the state,
he said that many of the students came with "the scantiest preparation,"
which made it necessary for V.A.M.C. to "include much of the work
properly belonging to the high schools, or even the grammar schools,
thus leaving it impossible to do all that is to be desired in the
special technical courses."

By mid-November, newspapers reported that 60 students had registered and
"the tide of entrance is steadily flowing on to as full numbers as can
be comfortably accommodated." Total enrollment during the first year of
operation eventually reached 132.

Since Add was the first to register, he probably was among the students
who lived in the Preston and Olin Building, described in an 1872 report
to the Commissioner of Agriculture as "a substantial three-story brick
edifice, 100 feet by 40, containing three recitation rooms, a chapel,
and twenty-four lodging rooms."  Those students who could not get
lodging on campus found rooms in town.  Since the college had no
facilities for providing meals, all students ate in town, many at
Luster's Hotel.  In 1873, a new building specifically built to serve
meals was completed, and students then had the option--until 1881--to
eat on campus or in town.

Each year that Add was enrolled, at least one of his brothers was
enrolled as well.  Mic, who never graduated, was on the rolls in 1872
and 1873 and again during 1876 and 1877. Another brother, Frank B.
Caldwell, about two years younger than Add, enrolled during Add's third
year and attended three consecutive terms but, like Mic, did not
graduate.

Add's scholarship, reportedly given him by a faculty and administration
ecstatic over finally getting a student, covered his tuition of $30, his
college fees of $10, and, if he roomed in the Preston and Olin Building,
his $5 per month room rent (unfurnished). "Table board" could be had for
$12 per month, and coal reportedly was "convenient and cheap."  Students
were required to deposit $5 with the treasurer as a contingent fee to
cover damages to property.  Uniforms cost an additional $17.25.

Like all students enrolled in first year studies, Add would have been
exposed to commercial arithmetic, bookkeeping, algebra, English grammar,
geography with map drawing, descriptive astronomy, penmanship, free-hand
drawing, lectures on physiology and hygiene, lectures on habits and
manners, lectures on the value of agricultural and mechanical arts to
society, French or German, farm or shop practice, and military tactics.

According to the 1964 VPI Historical Data Book, compiled and edited by
Jenkins Mikell Robertson, the entire college was under military
discipline from the beginning.  Students were "required to meet
formations, march to classes, pass room inspections, have military
passes when off campus, and conform to other types of military
behavior."  The students were assigned to one of two companies, A or B,
and each wore a standard uniform--a cap, jacket, and pants of cadet
gray, trimmed with black.  Add, a member of Company B, attained the rank
of second sergeant by the middle of his final year in college.

Each Memorial Day, the corps marched to Montgomery White Sulphur
Springs, 12-15 miles away, to honor the Confederate soldiers buried
there, returning to campus the same day.  In 1875, parts of the two
companies formed one company for the long march, while the remaining
students rode to the ceremony, prompting a comment from a Gen. Preston
that "it was 'd_____ poor militia that had to be hauled about in
ambulances."

Students also participated in a literary society that they organized
during the college's inaugural year.  The one society was succeeded by
two societies that became, in 1873, the Lee Literary Society and the
Maury Literary Society.  These societies, which focused on public
speaking, debate, and creative writing, started the first student
publication, The Gray Jacket, in 1875.

Add, a member of the Maury Literary Society, served on a joint committee
representing both societies.  The committee, according to an 1876 issue
of The Gray Jacket, concurred with the societies of Washington and
Graham-Lee in having an Inter-collegiate Association of Virginia
convention at Lynchburg.

The first school year at V.A.M.C. ran from October 1, 1872, to the last
Wednesday in July, 1873.  During the second year and for nine years
following, summer vacation was replaced with a vacation that began
around Christmas and lasted until late February. President Minor, in an
1875 issue of The Gray Jacket, justified the new school term, saying the
winter vacation was "best suited for an institution of this character"
because "the study of farm operations is interrupted at a less important
season of the year, besides students from other sections of the country,
while escaping the severity of winter in the mountains, will remain at
College during the most pleasant and healthful part of the year."

Add's performance in his classes is only partially known.  His obituary
says he graduated "at the head of his class," but it is likely that the
reporter confused his status as the college's first student, especially
since

Add's 1875 report card, mailed to his father in Craig County and donated
to Virginia Tech in 1992 by Frank Caldwell, lists his grades as follows:

Intermediate Year
Mathematics - 5
Chemistry - 7
The university archives includes a copy of the 1875 chemistry exam that Add would have taken.
Natural History - 8
Composition and Rhetoric - 7.5
French - 8
Composition (written) - 10
Military Tactics - 9.5
Farm work - 10

Senior Year
Book-Keeping - 5

William Addison Caldwell graduated from V.A.M.C. with the college's
second graduating class in the 1876 commencement exercises, which began
on August 6 with a sermon by the Rev. Oscar F. Flippo of Baltimore.  Two
days later, he listened to the fourth annual address before the literary
societies, delivered by Maj. John W. Daniel of Lynchburg. Virginia's
Governor Kemper, who was in attendance was "loudly called for" and
"responded in a brief but able and eloquent speech."  At 5 p.m. the same
day, the corps was reviewed by the governor and the college's Board of
Visitors.  On August 9, President Minor presented the diplomas--students
at that time received graduate certificates rather than degrees--and
Gen. J.H. Williams of Winchester delivered the annual address to faculty
and students.

The morning of August 9, the graduating class held an alumni meeting in
the Lee Society hall.  Following remarks by President Minor and a J.
Lawrence Radford "of Montgomery," the alumni association elected
officers for the ensuing year, including Add as secretary.

Following graduation, Add may have returned to Craig County to teach
school.  In 1877, an editor of The Gray Jacket complained that "so few
of our 'Old Boys' are farmers" and that "so many of them became
teachers."  But, the editor continued, "We must remember that these
gentlemen are, as far as we are informed, teaching public schools in
their immediate neighborhoods, and that the session of these schools, in
most cases, holds only through a part of the fall, winter, and spring
months, leaving cropping months entirely out. Now from what we can learn
of the matter our 'Old Boys' are farming in summer and teaching in
winter; thus they are most aptly filling their places as good citizens
and grateful sons of Virginia."  Certainly by 1880 Add, Mic, and Frank
were living with their parents in Sinking Creek, and all three were
teaching school.  At that time, Craig County employed 26 teachers for
its 26 public schools.

How long or where Add taught cannot be ascertained, but by 1887 he was
living in Roanoke, possibly with his youngest brother, E. Gambill "Gam"
Caldwell, and working in the general office of Norfolk and Western and
attending First Presbyterian Church.  Since Gam and Frank, who had
attended V.A.M.C. with Add, both worked at one time for Norfolk and
Western, the possibility exists that the three worked there together.

Before Add moved to Wilmington, N.C., around 1898--he moved his church
membership there in March of 1902--he became interested in the real
estate business in Roanoke, but whether he derived an income from the
sale of property is not known.  His work at the railroad office later
prompted a description of him as "a well known and popular employee."

In Wilmington, Add worked for several large wholesale firms on the
wharf:  the Stove Company, Mr. W.B. Cooper, Messrs. Blair & Haly, and
the C.C. Covington Company, traveling part of the time out of
Wilmington.  Perhaps one of these companies sold molasses since the
Virginia Tech Alumni Association reported in 1911 that Add had been a
salesman for a molasses firm.

After Add left the homeplace in Craig County, his brother Mic moved to
Radford and later persuaded his parents to sell the family farm in
Sinking Creek and move to Radford as well.  Two sisters, Grace and
Nell--like their brother Add, the two never married--moved with their
parents to a house across the street from Mic.  During summer vacations,
Add visited his relatives in Radford.

Sometime before 1910, Add's health declined, and Mrs. Mendez says he
underwent surgery for a brain tumor.  He recuperated from the operation
at his mother's home--his father had died around 1904.  According to
Mrs. Mendez, the doctor told Add that salt air would be good for him, so
he secured a position as a clerk at the Tangmoore (or Tarrymoore) Hotel
at Wrightsville Beach near Wilmington in the spring of 1910.  The job,
which he probably started around the first of June, was to last until
September 1.

On June 15, 1910, Add wrote his niece, who had developed a fond
attachment for this uncle who would play games with her and help her
with such chores as capping strawberries.  In the letter, which included
several pictures of the beach, Add admitted that the hotel was "a fine
place to spend the summer" but said he would rather be in Radford.

"I have not been here long enough to tell whether the salt air is going
to benefit me or not," he continued.  "I am feeling about the same, no
worse, no better."

He closed the letter by asking Mrs. Mendez, who was then nine years old,
to "[r]emember me to your grandmother [his mother] and with much love to
all of you and especially to yourself, I am fondly yours, Add."

A few days after he wrote the letter, Add fainted, sustaining a severe
fall that apparently resulted in a head injury.  Taken to the hospital
in Wilmington, he died ten days later on June 29, 1910.  His body was
taken to Radford, and his funeral was held in his mother's home.  His
old paster from First Presbyterian Church in Roanoke, Dr. W.C. Campbell,
conducted the service with assistance from three other pastors.  On July
1, Add was buried in the Caldwell family cemetery in Radford.

Today, the memory of William Addison Caldwell lives on--in the undying
affection of his niece, who donated the letter he wrote her to Virginia
Tech; through a nephew and namesake in Radford, who presented the
university with his uncle's bible in 1989; and in his singular role in
the slow and sometimes tumultuous birthing process of the school that
was to become Virginia Tech.

Lane Hall, originally known as Barracks No. 1, contains offices for disciplines in the College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences. It is the centerpiece building of the Upper Quad.For the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets, it's still considered home. Today's cadets continue a 120-year-old tradition by standing retreat in front of the hall each evening. One of the oldest buildings on campus, Lane still bears hundreds of signatures scratched into its bricks and mortar by cadets. Some of those etchings date back more than 100 years.A multimillion project to return the hall to the corps is in the works. Along with modernizing the building's electrical, mechanical, and information technology systems, the renovations will include additions at the rear of Lane Hall to provide classrooms and a more suitable space for the Corps of Cadets Museum.In the 1950s, Barracks No. 1 was renamed for Gen. James H. Lane, first commandant of cadets and professor of military tactics from 1872 to 1881. The Civil War veteran was a stern disciplinarian who expected students to toe the mark, both in the classroom and in the ranks. His fistfight with the college president led to an erosion of public confidence in the school and one of the blackest periods in the life of the college.Originally known as Barracks No. 1, Lane Hall was completed in 1888 and revolutionized campus amenities with bathrooms containing hot and cold running water. The hazing of rats (first-year cadets) seems to have blossomed in Barracks No. 1 since the building layout created an environment for upperclassmen to develop “extracurricular controls” over the rats. The barracks housed 130 students until it was converted to academic office use in 1967, ending 78 years of use as barracks. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2015.Get Directions  See All Locations  Contact Virginia Tech  © 2023 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.
Virginia Tech / About / Virginia Tech Buildings 280 Alumni MallLane Hall, originally known as Barracks No. 1, contains offices for disciplines in the College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences. It is the centerpiece building of the Upper Quad.For the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets, it's still considered home. Today's cadets continue a 120-year-old tradition by standing retreat in front of the hall each evening. One of the oldest buildings on campus, Lane still bears hundreds of signatures scratched into its bricks and mortar by cadets. Some of those etchings date back more than 100 years.A multimillion project to return the hall to the corps is in the works. Along with modernizing the building's electrical, mechanical, and information technology systems, the renovations will include additions at the rear of Lane Hall to provide classrooms and a more suitable space for the Corps of Cadets Museum.In the 1950s, Barracks No. 1 was renamed for Gen. James H. Lane, first commandant of cadets and professor of military tactics from 1872 to 1881. The Civil War veteran was a stern disciplinarian who expected students to toe the mark, both in the classroom and in the ranks. His fistfight with the college president led to an erosion of public confidence in the school and one of the blackest periods in the life of the college.Originally known as Barracks No. 1, Lane Hall was completed in 1888 and revolutionized campus amenities with bathrooms containing hot and cold running water. The hazing of rats (first-year cadets) seems to have blossomed in Barracks No. 1 since the building layout created an environment for upperclassmen to develop “extracurricular controls” over the rats. The barracks housed 130 students until it was converted to academic office use in 1967, ending 78 years of use as barracks. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2015.Map Grid: M-3Building Number: 001Originally Built: 1888Abbreviation: LANELatitude: 37.2309Longitude: -80.41978Related Sites© 2017 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State UniversityIn an extended session February 27, the Student Activities Committee
    voted to recommend to President Hahn that he remove the Confederate flag
    from the Coliseum and, at the same time, refused to censor the VPI
    regimental Band from playing "Dixie". Approximately 25 interested students
    attended the meeting and many of these expressed their views on the issue.
    Dwight Crewe, president of the Human Relations Council, said in presenting
    the issues to the committee that the university should not
    "institutionalize" racism by flying the flag in the coliseum. Crewe said he
    felt the matter was not a question of majority rule but rather, of the
    rights of the individual.Mark Musick, president of the Class of '69 and SGA senator, doubted
    this. Musick said that since neither side was totally right or totally
    wrong, then it was questionable as to whether the wishes of individuals
    should prevail over the wishes of the majority. Musick asked Crewe what he
    or others who felt the same way had done to "educate" the majority into
    believing as the minority does. Musick suggested that the use of the campus
    publications and dorm "bull" sessions as a means of doing this.Crewe replied that he would be wasting his time trying to do this. In
    presenting the question to the student body, Crewe felt that he would come
    across 75% apathy and the other 25% would not change their minds.Ray Smoot, SGA president, said that the majority of the students viewed
    the flag as a symbol of school spirit and not a symbol of racism. Crewe
    rebutted this by saying that there was no way that black students could
    rally around this school spirit symbol. Crewe said that one of the major
    reasons black athletes and students don't come to Tech is because of the
    flag in the Coliseum.Mike Guy, president of the CIC, made a motion that was amended to read
    as follows: "The Student Activities Committee recommends that the
    University should not fly the Confederate battle flag in the Coliseum or at
    any other location on campus as an official policy of the University."Before this motion was voted on, Ray Smoot moved to refer the matter "to
    the SGA Senate for consideration before the Student Activities Committee
    acts on the original motion." The referral motion was defeated by the vote
    of Chairman James Dean after the committee itself deadlocked at 9 - 9 vote.
    The original motion then was passed with smoot casting the only dissenting
    vote.The SAC then took up the matter of "Dixie." Steve Wickham, captain of
    the Regimental Band, said that the members of the band view "Dixie" as a
    fight song, and not one of racism. He stated that if the student body were
    against it, then the band could not play it. He added that the band would
    view it as a form of censorship if they were told not to play it.Al Savageau, chairman of the Publications Board, agreed with Wickham. He
    felt that the matter of the "Dixie" was totally different from the flag
    issue since censorship of the band might lead to censorship of student
    publications.Pat Tucker, president of the SGA Senate, made the following motion which
    was approved by the committee, "The Student Act Committee recommends that
    the University should not censor any recognized student organization
    operating within its charter as approved by the SAC, for any of its actions
    except those outside state and federal laws. We further believe that
    limiting the selection of music available to the VPI Regimental Band is
    censorship for reasons other than state and federal laws."Mark Musick then read the following motion: "The Student Activities
    Committee recommends to the president of the University Council be asked
    for recommendation concerning the question: Should the University fly the
    Confederate battle flag in the Coliseum or at any location on campus as a
    part of University authority. The SAC has recommended that the flag,
    commonly referred to as the Confederate battle flag, should not be flown on
    campus as part of University authority. However, it does not recommend that
    the flag be removed until all other appropriate groups in the University
    community have been consulted." The motion was then approved by the
    committee.The University Archives collects, preserves, and provides access to materials documenting the history and development of the university and its various components.Example materials in the University Archives include
    

The Dream
The famous game cannon of the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets was born in the dreams of three cadets of the class of 1964 and it's metal tested in the heat of battle between VPI and VMI.
For a third year, two close friends in the Corps "Butch" Harper aka Alton B. Harper Jr. and "Sonny" Hickam aka Homer Hadley Hickam sat in the stands of Victory Stadium in Roanoke in anticipation of the Thanksgiving Game with VMI.  The Tech Corps formed on the field first and took position while the VMI Corps marched into the stadium.
Both Corps of Cadets took their traditional positions on opposing sides.  And for the third time that Butch and Sonny had witnessed VMI brought in it's game cannon "Little John."  
Oh, it was a small thing that looked more like a mortar than a cannon.  They loaded it, fired it and the whole VMI Corps swelled with the chant, "Where's your cannon!," as a perfect smoke ring rose towards the sky.
This was too much to bear! Butch looked at Sonny and Sonny looked at Butch and the two made a solemn pact right there in the stands.  This would be the last time that VMI would be allowed to "out cannon" Virginia Tech.  They vowed to build the largest game cannon in the world.  We won the game.
The whole thing took on the form of a major military operation.  Sonny found the blueprints for a Civil War cannon barrel and Ben looked to find out where they could get a carriage made for the cannon.  But the proverbial problem soon became evident.  Where on earth would they get the money.
They attacked it on two sides.  First, they decided that it would have to come from the Corps itself with some help from Alumni.  Now just how do you convince 1700 folks to give money.
Sonny came up with the idea to have a wooden mold made of the barrel at our college of mechanical engineering.  They took it on as a class project.  
While they were working on the mold, Ben marched into the Commandant of Cadets, General Scheve's Office.  He sat behind an imposing walnut desk in his office in the Old Military Building.
After a proper salute was proffered, Ben noticed two crossed barrels on his uniform signifying his affiliation with artillery.  Suddenly the daunting task that was about to be requested seemed somehow possible.
With a slightly wavering voice Ben requested permission to speak.  "Sir, a request, Sir!"
"What is it young man," snapped General Scheve.  "Sir, I would like you to place me on the Regimental Staff next year so I can help build the largest game cannon in the world for the Corps."
Now at this particular moment, the General's stern countenance took on the warm glow of a grandfather seeing his first grandchild.  He tried terribly to look serious, but I knew he was just busting to hear the plan.
Well you see Sir.  Sonny Hickam and I, well I mean the whole Corps is getting tired of hearing it from VMI.  And we're getting damn tired of listening to that cannon with no response, sir.
Now if you could see fit to put me on as Regimental S-2, the Information Officer, I would have direct contact with the Alumni and we need their money and support.
"How big did you say it was going to be?" the General asked.  "The biggest damn cannon that VMI will ever see!" I snapped back.  "And you and Sonny can get it done?" he asked.
"Yes Sir!"
The General looked for a long time with no response.  I dare say, nobody had ever asked to be on the Regimental Staff before, it just was not done.  And I felt I had probably blown my whole military career.  But then, some things are worth it.  
"Noted," said the General.  "Dismissed!"
In the mean time, the cannon barrel project continued in the mechanical engineering shop.
I looked toward change of rank with great misgivings.  Had I blown it?  Was the General going to teach me a lesson for being so brash?  As all of us marched onto the drill field to find our new destiny, my knees felt weak.  I was certain that nothing would come of my request and that we may not be able to fulfill our dreams without the help of the Alumni.
The Seniors left their position of rank and the names of the Junior class drifted across the expanse of the drill field.  "A" Squadron was first.  Sonny was made an officer in "A" Squadron.
I know it was what he wanted and I was happy for him.  No rank for me in A Squadron.
There I stood feeling very, very alone.  Without getting anything in the Squadron, that only left Group and Regimental Staff.  Group's Staff came and went.  No rank for me in Group.
Now I was sure that this upstart was doomed.  After what seemed like a century.  The assignments for Regimental were droned out.  I can't tell you what it meant when I heard "Regimental S-2, Cadet Alton B. Harper, Jr."  It meant that we could fulfill the dream.
That the channel to the Alumni was open.
As we passed in final review and the New Regimental Staff saluted the Commandant of Cadets, I looked toward the General and witnessed the biggest smile I've ever seen. As he raised his hand in salute, it was the one and only time I have ever been given a wink by a General.  It was his way of saying, "Now go build that cannon for this old artillery man, son."
Sonny came over and we decided on a strategy.  We would call a meeting of every company and every squadron.  And we would take the wooden mold of the barrel of the cannon to every meeting.  George Fox, another friend from A Squadron volunteered to help.
What a wonderful moment.  Every person should have one magic moment in life where they could enjoy something so accepted as "Skipper."  The huge wooden mold of the barrel did its job.  It inspired every member of the Corps.  The meetings, 16 in all, made it evident that never again would the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets go into battle without a gun.
At the end of each meeting, each cadet got up, went back to his room and brought back what he could spare.  We asked each for just one dollar and all of the brass they could give.
They brought their grommets, they brought their brass plates, they brought their old brass buckles.  This cannon would not simply be built with their dollars, but with their hearts.  It is for this reason that you can find the class numerals of 63, 64, 65 and 66 on the face of the barrel.
It was a moving experience.  Sonny and I found it hard to look at each other after each meeting, because we knew we would each see a tear in the eye of the other.  These were the best guys in the world.  We have never seen anything so emotionally supported then or now.  I would not trade that feeling of being a member of a group of which I was so proud for anything in the world.  

 
The Making
The money was raised. We were a little short on brass, but Sonny brought in some brass fittings from his father's mine in West Virginia to fill it out and some bullet casings were gathered from the firing range.  We took them all to the Virginia Foundry Company in Roanoke Virginia.
I had called the President of the Company a few months before and told him what we were about to do after swearing him to secrecy.  I asked him how much it would cost and he astounded me with his response.  You don't have enough, he indicated, but I've thought we needed a cannon for a long time too.  Son, I'm a member of the Corps Class of '37.  We'll be making that barrel for you for nothing.  Just blow the heck out of them for us, will ya.
It was a deal.  He took our brass and wooden mold and set about the task of casting the barrel.  
A few days later I received a phone call from Mr. Hoffman.  He asked where we had gotten the brass for the barrel and I told him the story.  It seems that not all of the shell casings that we picked up from the floor of the firing range were empty.  He said when they poured the brass into the vat for melting everybody was ducking for cover as the foundry was filled with the sound of gunfire.  Well, after all, no good cannon worth it's salt is made without a little effort.  He indicated that the brass we gave him was too soft without support and recommended that we let him add some navy gun metal brass for safety along with ours. It was done.
Hoffman asked if he could bring in the Roanoke Times on the secret.  I told him yes, if he would wait until the edition that prints directly after the game because we had big plans for VMI, and it absolutely depended on their not knowing.  He agreed, and I knew I could trust him because he was one of us
It was now time to turn to the carriage.  We found the place that made the old Civil War gun carriages for the National Battle Field Parks like Gettysburg.  It was the Lorton Reformatory, in Lorton, Virginia just outside of Washington D.C.  They were given all of the money that we had saved by not having to pay for the barrel and they agreed to make the carriage to hold "Skipper."
 
The Name
The cannon did not yet have a name.  And we never dreamed of the circumstances that would cause it to have one that were about to unfold.  
Time was getting short.  The big game was fast approaching.  Everything was in place.
It was time to pick up the barrel and the carriage.  We rented a truck that Sonny and I drove and a chase car was driven by George Fox and a few others also from A Squadron.
We stopped by the Foundry in Roanoke first to pick up the barrel.  After all, if the barrel was not ready, there was no need to go on to Washington.  The whole foundry turned out.  They were as proud of the barrel as we were.  They shook our hands, wished us well and gave a big Tech cheer as we headed off to get the carriage.
It was a long trip, all the way across the state and the Reformatory was a bit foreboding.  But the carriage was waiting just as promised.  It took all of us to load it into the truck.
We had it!  We had done it! And we were on the way back to show it to the whole Corps.
It was the best feeling in the World.  Nothing like it.  
After about 20 minutes, the chase car that was now a lead car, pulled over on the shoulder and waved us to pull over.  Our truck did not have a radio.  George Fox came back to Sonny and I and indicated that it had just been broadcast that the President had been shot in Dallas and that they did not know how severe it was.  We continued back to Blacksburg not in the exhilaration that we had experienced, but with a tremendous foreboding.  In those days, we did not know whether it was an international plot, whether war was imminent, or what the future would hold.  It was like going from basking in the warm sun to being plunged into the abyss of a cold dark tunnel.  There was no more joy in the trip.  We were quite.
By the time that we arrived back in Blacksburg, we knew that the President was dead
We felt terrible.  But we wanted to do something in honor of our Head of State.  We remembered an old military tradition that, at the death of a President, all military installations give a 50 gun salute to their fallen leader.  
It was then that we knew what we had to do.  It was then that we knew what we had to name our cannon.  It would be named "Skipper" in honor of John Fitzgerald Kennedy and his naval background.

 
The Salute
The first firing of "Skipper" would be a 50 round salute to our fallen President.  It would be our test of the barrel's strength and it would be the salute of the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets.
As we placed "Skipper" in position on the lawn in front of Brodie and Rasche Halls, General Sheve appeared.  Sonny had quickly devised special charges that were quite rudimentary.
But, at the time it was all we could do.  I saw a look in the General's eyes that spoke a thousand words.  Never did he dream when he allowed us to proceed on building the cannon that it would be christened in this way.  It was an emotional moment for all of us.
The first charges for Skipper were made after we bought all of the local stores out of yellow and red plastic catsup and mustard squeeze bottles.  We filled them with super fine black gunpowder.  Placed a cherry bomb on top with two fuses taped together that extended out of the hole where the catsup pours.  We wrapped the bottles tightly with heavy tape so that the charge would explode rather than "poof."  One of us held the charge, the other lit it and slid it down the barrel.  Not exactly how they do it today.  But we were not about to have a cannon on the installation without being able to honor our President.
"Skipper" did just fine.  A tradition was born.
 
The Game
After we found that the Thanksgiving Day game would indeed be held, we immediately began laying plans for introducing "Skipper" to the opposing Corps of Cadets at VMI.
We met with Curt Tompkins, Captain of the "Highty Tighties."  He was brought into the big secret.  We would take the cannon to Roanoke the night before the game and hide it in the stadium.  We would let our Corps and the VMI Corps march in the parade, and into the stadium.  We would take our place in the stands and let the VMI Corps form and take their place as normal.  We would let them bring in "little John," their mortar, and fire it as usual. We would let them chant Where's your cannon," as usual. 
At that time, Sonny and I and George would stand and signal Curt and the Highty Tighties to strike up the march of the Charioteers from Ben Hur.  And 50 Freshman members of the rat class would pull in "Skipper" with two long heavy ropes.  Place it in position aimed directly at the center of the VMI Corps of Cadets and fire it!
And Fire it we did.  Sonny and George placed a charge in the barrel and looked at me as if to ask if that was enough with a twinkle in their eye.  I knew the answer they were looking for. Another would be appropriate and yet another.  We placed a triple charge into the cannon that day.  
What happened after that became legend.  The folks sitting next to the VMI Corps later told us that it blew the hats off of half of the Corps.  And a huge announcement came pounding from the press boxes.  It seems that the reporters had to place their hands on the glass of the press box to keep it from vibrating out of its frame. 
The VMI Corps was quiet - never again to challenge the veracity of our artillery.  The mission was complete.  The duty was done.  The game was won.  Little did we know how this simple act would affect the rest of our lives.

The Effect
Sonny went on to fulfill his dream of being in the space program with NASA.  And launchings and firings became a permanent part of his life.  He went on to write the book "October Sky" after retiring and Hollywood turned it into a four star movie.  Now he's writing more books.
We met again just recently for the first time in 35 years.
I remained in the Public Information business that started as PIO for the Corps and turned into becoming the Advertising Director for the Kroger Company.  I am chairman of "Thunder Over Louisville" the Opening Ceremonies of the Kentucky Derby Festival.  It is the largest Fireworks, Light show in the World with over 50 tons of fireworks, 112 World War II searchlights, and 125 aircraft in the show witnessed by a live audience of 600,000 and a televised audience of over two million.  
So you see, we both are still blowing up the world.  The moral of this story is never do anything in college that you don't want to do the rest of your life.
So we leave you with this thought.  If anything is worth doing at all, it is worth doing well.
The other effect of Skipper hit us at the Syracuse game.  After 35 years something that Sonny and George and I had a small part in creating is still a living symbol of the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets.  You cannot image how great that makes us all feel.  Well done Corps.  You have carried the torch of tradition well.  You have earned the honor and respect of "The Old Corps."
We have passed the torch to you and you have carried it with honor and distinction.
The words of an old General come to mind.  We will always remember The Corps, and the Corps, and the Corps.

THE RING
          TRADITION
Virginia Tech is one of only a few colleges and universities that maintains a
          class ring tradition. The Ring program is distinctive from other
          colleges in that the entire ring collection is redesigned
          for each class, and rings are presented at a formal Ring Dance.
The Virginia Tech Class Ring Tradition began with the Class
          of 1914, the first to choose a student committee to design a ring that
          would be meaningful to the Class. The Class Ring Design Committee
          since that time has been selected during the sophomore year and is
          responsible for creating a collection unique to each Class.
          Traditional ring collection elements have changed somewhat over time
          and currently include: the screaming eagle, American
          flag, campus buildings and an interlocking chain around the bezel. From
          there, the Ring Committee designs a class ring representing the unique
          characteristics of their respective class.
Since
          1991, the ring design process includes the selection of a Class
          namesake. This is done as a dedication to a distinguished alumnus or
          university president.
Established
          by the Class of 1935, the Ring Dance weekend takes places in the
          spring of a student’s junior year. The two-day celebration includes
          a banquet honoring the ring collection’s namesake, the formal Ring
          Dance and fireworks.
The
          strong ring tradition at Tech inspires most students to order rings.
          The large number of orders and the large physical size of the rings
          (up to 40 dwt) make the Tech class ring the prestige order
          of the of the college ring business. The result is fierce
          competition between the major ring manufacturers for Tech's class ring
          business. This competition contributes to the remarkable quality,
          distinctive designs and generous manufacturer guarantees for which Tech rings are traditionally known.
          Manufacturers that have made Tech rings in the past include Bailey,
          Banks and Biddle; Charles Elliott; George Spies; Dieges and Clust;
          John Roberts; Herff-Jones; Balfour and Jostens.
The company that was awarded the privilege of making Tech's 
			  1971 class ring was Jostens. Jostens 1971 Class Ring guarantee...
          Jostens will at any time:
          	~  resize the ring at no
          charge
          	~  replace broken encrusting
          at no charge if stone is undamaged
			  ~  replace the ring for any
          reason for $15 plus the old ring
          	~  refinish the ring at no
          charge
			  ~  complete repairs in three
          weeks and total replacements in four weeks
The
          Class Program, through the advising of the Virginia Tech Alumni
          Association, maintains the tradition of the Virginia Tech Class Ring.
          Through the Association, alumni must have their class year confirmed
          before either ordering or replacing a ring to ensure the continued
          integrity of the program. (Actually,
			  
			  Jostens does not require the Alumni Associations student 
			  certification for repairs/resizing, and you can work directly with 
			  them through their web site) Dating back to 1923, almost all rings 
			  can be replaced in their original design. The Virginia Tech Ring 
			  Display Case, which houses Virginia Tech Class rings from 1914 to 
			  the present, is
          located in the Williamsburg Room of Squires Student Center.